---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s19

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s18.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s20.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs19)

##### § 19. Print, newspaper or publication in foreign languages

    Ten days after the approval of this act \[Oct. 6, 1917\] and until the end of the war, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association, to print, publish, or circulate, or cause to be printed, published, or circulated in any foreign language, any news item, editorial or other printed matter, respecting the Government of the United States, or of any nation engaged in the present war, its policies, international relations, the state or conduct of the war, or any matter relating thereto: Provided, That this section shall not apply to any print, newspaper, or publication where the publisher or distributor thereof, on or before offering the same for mailing, or in any manner distributing it to the public, has filed with the postmaster at the place of publication, in the form of an affidavit, a true and complete translation of the entire article containing such matter proposed to be published in such print, newspaper, or publication, and has caused to be printed, in plain type in the English language, at the head of each such item, editorial, or other matter, on each copy of such print, newspaper, or publication, the words “True translation filed with the postmaster at \_\_\_\_ on \_\_\_\_ (naming the post office where the translation was filed, and the date of filing thereof), as required by the Act of \_\_\_\_ (here giving the date of this Act \[Oct. 6, 1917\]).”

    Any print, newspaper, or publication in any foreign language which does not conform to the provisions of this section is declared to be nonmailable, and it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association, to transport, carry, or otherwise publish or distribute the same, or to transport, carry or otherwise publish or distribute any matter which is made nonmailable by the provisions of the Act relating to espionage, approved June fifteenth, nineteen hundred and seventeen: Provided, further, That upon evidence satisfactory to him that any print, newspaper, or publication, printed in a foreign language may be printed, published, and distributed free from the foregoing restrictions and conditions without detriment to the United States in the conduct of the present war, the President may cause to be issued to the printers or publishers of such print, newspaper, or publication, a permit to print, publish, and circulate the issue or issues of their print, newspaper, or publication, free from such restrictions and requirements, such permits to be subject to revocation at his discretion. And the Postmaster General  <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 See Transfer of Functions note below. </sup></sup>  shall cause copies of all such permits and revocations of permits to be furnished to the postmaster of the post office serving the place from which the print, newspaper, or publication, granted the permit is to emanate. All matter printed, published and distributed under permits shall bear at the head thereof in plain type in the English language, the words, “Published and distributed under permit authorized by the Act of \_\_\_\_ (here giving date of this Act \[Oct. 6, 1917\]), on file at the post office of \_\_\_\_ (giving name of office).”

    Any person who shall make an affidavit containing any false statement in connection with the translation provided for in this section shall be guilty of the crime of perjury and subject to the punishment provided therefor by section one hundred and twenty-five of the Act of March fourth, nineteen hundred and nine, entitled “An Act to codify, revise, and amend the penal laws of the United States,” and any person, firm, corporation, or association, violating any other requirement of this section shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment of not more than one year, or, in the discretion of the court, may be both fined and imprisoned.

([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 19][/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s19], [40 Stat. 425][/us/stat/40/425].)

 __References in Text__ 

    Provision of the Act relating to espionage approved June fifteenth, nineteen hundred and seventeen, referred to in text, means [act June 15, 1917, ch. 30][/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30], title I, §§ 1–8, [40 Stat. 217][/us/stat/40/217], as amended, which enacted sections 31 to 38 of Title 50, War and National Defense, and which was repealed by [act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 21][/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s21], [62 Stat. 862][/us/stat/62/862], and reenacted as sections 792 to 794 and 2388 of Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

    Section one hundred and twenty-five of the Act of March fourth, nineteen hundred and nine, entitled “An Act to codify, revise, and amend the penal laws of the United States”, referred to in text, enacted section 231 of former Title 18, Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure, was repealed by [act June 25, 1948, ch. 645, § 21][/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s21], [62 Stat. 862][/us/stat/62/862], and reenacted as [section 1621 of Title 18][/us/usc/t18/s1621], Crimes and Criminal Procedure.

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Office of Postmaster General of Post Office Department abolished and functions, powers, and duties of Postmaster General transferred to United States Postal Service by [Pub. L. 91–375, § 4(a)][/us/pl/91/375/s4/a], Aug. 12, 1970, [84 Stat. 773][/us/stat/84/773], set out as a note under [section 201 of Title 39][/us/usc/t39/s201], Postal Service.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s18.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s20.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs19)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s19]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs19
[/us/stat/40/425]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F40%2F425
[/us/act/1917-06-15/ch30]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1917-06-15%2Fch30
[/us/stat/40/217]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F40%2F217
[/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s21]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1948-06-25%2Fch645%2Fs21
[/us/stat/62/862]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F62%2F862
[/us/act/1948-06-25/ch645/s21]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1948-06-25%2Fch645%2Fs21
[/us/stat/62/862]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F62%2F862
[/us/usc/t18/s1621]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft18%2Fs1621
[/us/pl/91/375/s4/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F91%2F375%2Fs4%2Fa
[/us/stat/84/773]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F84%2F773
[/us/usc/t39/s201]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft39%2Fs201


