---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s44

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s43.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1918-03-08/ch20/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1918-03-08_ch20.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs44)

##### § 44. Motion picture prints, transfer of title

    (a) __Prints in custody of Library of Congress; exception__ 

        The Attorney General is authorized and directed to transfer to the Library of Congress the title to all prints of motion pictures now in the custody of the Library, which prints were vested in or transferred to the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General pursuant to this Act \[sections 1 to 6, 7 to 39, and 41 to 44 of this Appendix\] after December 17, 1941, except prints of motion pictures which are the subject of suits or claims under section 9(a) or section 32 of this Act \[section 9(a) or section 32 of this Appendix\].

    (b) __Prints in custody of Attorney General; exception; right of selection by Library of Congress; disposal of unselected prints by Attorney General__ 

        Subject to the right of selection by the Library of Congress, the authorization, direction, and exception contained in subsection (a) hereof shall apply with respect to such prints now in the custody of the Attorney General. Prints not selected by the Library of Congress may be disposed of by the Attorney General in any manner he deems appropriate.

    (c) __Retention, reproduction, and disposal of prints by Library of Congress__ 

        With respect to all prints concerning which title is transferred to the Library of Congress pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) hereof, the Library shall have complete discretion to retain such prints and to reproduce copies thereof, or to dispose of them in any manner it deems appropriate.

([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 43][/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s43], as added [Pub. L. 87–861, § 2][/us/pl/87/861/s2], Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1140][/us/stat/76/1140].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions of Alien Property Custodian and Office of Alien Property Custodian, except those relating to property or interest in Philippines, are vested in Attorney General. See notes set out under section 6 of this Appendix.

 __SOLDIERS’ AND SAILORS’ CIVIL RELIEF ACT OF 1918__ 

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s43.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1918-03-08/ch20/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1918-03-08_ch20.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs44)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s43]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs43
[/us/pl/87/861/s2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F861%2Fs2
[/us/stat/76/1140]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F76%2F1140


