---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s43

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s42.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s44.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs43)

##### § 43. Divestment of trademarks

    (a) __“Trademarks” defined__ 

        As used in this section, the word “trademarks” includes trademarks, trade names, and the goodwill of the business to which a trademark or trade name is appurtenant.

    (b) __Effective date of divestment; rights of licensees; transfer of interests; payment of royalties to Attorney General__ 

        Trademarks vested in the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General under the provisions of this Act \[sections 1 to 6, 7 to 39, and 41 to 44 of this Appendix\] subsequent to December 17, 1941, which have not been returned or otherwise disposed of under this Act \[said sections\], except trademarks vested by vesting orders 284, as amended (7 Fed. Reg. 9754, 9 Fed. Reg. 1038), 2354 (8 Fed. Reg. 14635), 5592 (11 Fed. Reg. 1675), and 18805 (17 Fed. Reg. 4364), are hereby divested as a matter of grace, effective the ninety-first day after the day of enactment of this section \[Oct. 23, 1962\], and the persons entitled to such trademarks shall on that day succeed to the rights, privileges, and obligations arising therefrom, subject, however, to the rights of licensees under licenses issued by the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General in respect to such trademarks. The rights and interests remaining in the Attorney General under licenses issued by him or by the Alien Property Custodian in respect to trademarks divested hereunder are transferred, effective the day of divestment, to the persons entitled to such trademarks: Provided, That all unpaid royalties or other income accrued in favor of the Attorney General under such licenses prior to the day of divestment shall be paid by the licensees to the Attorney General.

    (c) __Prevesting contracts; exceptions; payment of royalties to Attorney General__ 

    All rights or interests vested in the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General under the provisions of this Act \[sections 1 to 6, 7 to 39, and 41 to 44 of this Appendix\] subsequent to December 17, 1941, arising out of prevesting contracts entered into with respect to trademarks, except—

        (1) royalties or other income received by or accrued in favor of the Alien Property Custodian or the Attorney General under such contracts;

        (2) rights or interests which have been returned or otherwise disposed of under this Act \[said sections\];

        (3) rights or interests vested by vesting orders 284, as amended (7 Fed. Reg. 9754; 9 Fed. Reg. 1038), 2354 (8 Fed. Reg. 14635), 5592 (11 Fed. Reg. 1675), and 18805 (17 Fed. Reg. 4364),

        are hereby divested as a matter of grace, effective the ninety-first day after the date of enactment of this section \[Oct. 23, 1962\], and the persons entitled to such rights or interests shall succeed thereto, subject to the right of the Attorney General to collect and receive all unpaid royalties or other income accrued in his favor under such prevesting contracts prior to the day of divestment.

    (d) __Publication of ownership list in Federal Register; effective date of divestment; succession to ownership of equivalent trademarks__ 

        The Attorney General shall within forty-five days after the date of enactment of this section \[Oct. 23, 1962\] publish in the Federal Register a list of trademarks which at the date of vesting in the Alien Property Custodian or Attorney General were owned by persons who were resident in or had their sole or primary seat in the area of Germany now in the Soviet Zone of Occupation or in the Soviet sector of Berlin or in German territory under provisional Soviet or Polish administration. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this section, the effective date of divestment of the trademarks so listed and published in the Federal Register shall be the date of publication in the Federal Register by the Secretary of State of a certification identifying the cases in which an equivalent trademark has been registered in the Federal Republic of Germany for a person residing or having its sole or primary seat in the Federal Republic of Germany or in the western sectors of Berlin. In those cases of an equivalent trademark certified by the Secretary of State, the person registered by the Federal Republic of Germany as owner of such equivalent trademark shall succeed to the ownership of the divested trademark in the United States.

([Oct. 6, 1917, ch. 106, § 42][/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s42], as added [Pub. L. 87–861, § 2][/us/pl/87/861/s2], Oct. 23, 1962, [76 Stat. 1139][/us/stat/76/1139].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions of Alien Property Custodian and Office of Alien Property Custodian, except those relating to property or interest in Philippines, are vested in Attorney General. See notes set out under section 6 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s42.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1917-10-06/ch106/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1917-10-06_ch106_s44.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs43)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1917-10-06/ch106/s42]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1917-10-06%2Fch106%2Fs42
[/us/pl/87/861/s2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F861%2Fs2
[/us/stat/76/1139]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F76%2F1139


