---
---

# 10 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t10/s2254a

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch134/schII/m__us_usc_t10_s2254.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch134/schII/m__us_usc_t10_s2255.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs2254a)

## § 2254a. Data files of military flight operations quality assurance systems: exemption from disclosure under Freedom of Information Act

    (a) __Authority to Exempt Certain Data Files From Disclosure Under FOIA.—__ 

        (1)

         The Secretary of Defense may exempt information contained in any data file of the military flight operations quality assurance system of a military department from disclosure under [section 552(b)(3) of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3], upon a written determination that—

            (A) the information is sensitive information concerning military aircraft, units, or aircrew; and

            (B) the public interest consideration in the disclosure of such information does not outweigh preventing the disclosure of such information.

        (2)

         In this section, the term “data file” means a file of the military flight operations quality assurance (in this section referred to as “MFOQA”) system that contains information acquired or generated by the MFOQA system, including—

            (A) any data base containing raw MFOQA data; and

            (B) any analysis or report generated by the MFOQA system or which is derived from MFOQA data.

        (3) Information that is exempt under paragraph (1) from disclosure under [section 552(b)(3) of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3] shall be exempt from such disclosure even if such information is contained in a data file that is not exempt in its entirety from such disclosure.

        (4) The provisions of paragraph (1) may not be superseded except by a provision of law which is enacted after the date of the enactment of this section and which specifically cites and repeals or modifies those provisions.

    (b) __Regulations.—__ 

    The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe regulations for the administration of this section. Such regulations shall ensure consistent application of the authority in subsection (a) across the military departments.

    (c) __Delegation.—__ 

    The Secretary of Defense may delegate the authority to make a determination under subsection (a) to the Director of Administration and Management of the Department.

    (d) __Transparency.—__ 

    Each determination of the Secretary, or the Secretary’s designee, under subsection (a) shall be made in writing and accompanied by a statement of the basis for the determination. All such determinations and statements of basis shall be available to the public, upon request, through the Office of the Director of Administration and Management.

(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, § 1082(a)(1)][/us/pl/112/81/s1082/a/1], Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1600][/us/stat/125/1600].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The date of the enactment of this section, referred to in subsec. (a)(4), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 112–81][/us/pl/112/81], which was approved Dec. 31, 2011.

 __Effective Date__ 

[Pub. L. 112–81, div. A, title X, § 1082(b)][/us/pl/112/81/s1082/b], Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1601][/us/stat/125/1601], provided that: 

> “[Section 2254a of title 10][/us/usc/t10/s2254a], United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to any information entered into any data file of the military flight operations quality assurance system before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act \[Dec. 31, 2011\].”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch134/schII/m__us_usc_t10_s2254.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch134/schII/m__us_usc_t10_s2255.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs2254a)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs552%2Fb%2F3
[/us/usc/t5/s552/b/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs552%2Fb%2F3
[/us/pl/112/81/s1082/a/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F112%2F81%2Fs1082%2Fa%2F1
[/us/stat/125/1600]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F125%2F1600
[/us/pl/112/81]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F112%2F81
[/us/pl/112/81/s1082/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F112%2F81%2Fs1082%2Fb
[/us/stat/125/1601]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F125%2F1601
[/us/usc/t10/s2254a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs2254a


