---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s150902

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1509/m__us_usc_t36_s150901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1509/m__us_usc_t36_s150903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs150902)

## § 150902. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1)

     to collect, analyze, develop, and disseminate in the public interest information and recommendations about—

        (A) protection against radiation; and

        (B) radiation measurements, quantities, and units, particularly those concerned with protection against radiation;

    (2) to provide a means by which organizations concerned with the scientific and related aspects of protection against radiation and of radiation quantities, units, and measurements may cooperate for effective use of their combined resources, and to stimulate the work of those organizations;

    (3)

     to develop basic concepts about—

        (A) radiation quantities, units, and measurements;

        (B) the application of those concepts; and

        (C) protection against radiation; and

    (4) to cooperate with the International Commission on Radiological Protection, the Federal Radiation Council, the International Commission on Radiological Units and Measurements, and other national and international organizations, governmental and private, concerned with radiation quantities, units, and measurements and with protection against radiation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1395][/us/stat/112/1395].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

150902  </td>

    <td> 

36:4503.  </td>

    <td> 

July 14, 1964, Pub. L. 88–376, § 3, 78 Stat. 321.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the word “objects” is omitted as unnecessary. The words “protection against radiation” are used throughout, and the words “(referred to herein as ‘radiation protection’)” in 36:4503(1) are omitted, for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1509/m__us_usc_t36_s150901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1509/m__us_usc_t36_s150903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs150902)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1395]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1395


