---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schI/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1011_schI.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s101102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101101)

## § 101101. Authority to accept land, rights-of-way, buildings, other property, and money

    The Secretary in the administration of the Service may accept—

    (1) patented land, rights-of-way over patented land or other land, buildings, or other property within a System unit; and

    (2) money that may be donated for the purposes of the System.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3119][/us/stat/128/3119].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 6  </td>

    <td> 

June 5, 1920, ch. 235, § 1 (2d undesignated par. under heading “national parks”), 41 Stat. 917.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

 __National Park System Donor Acknowledgment__ 

[Pub. L. 113–291, div. B, title XXX, § 3054][/us/pl/113/291/s3054], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3806][/us/stat/128/3806], provided that:

>     “(a)  __Definitions__  __.—__ 

>     In this section:

>         “(1)  __Donor acknowledgment__  __.—__ 

>         The term ‘donor acknowledgment’ means an appropriate statement or credit acknowledging a donation.

>         “(2)  __National park system__  __.—__ 

>         The term ‘National Park System’ includes each program and individual unit of the National Park System.

>         “(3)  __Secretary__  __.—__ 

>         The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Interior.

>     “(b) __Donor Acknowledgments in Units of National Park System.—__ 

>         “(1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

>         The Secretary may authorize a donor acknowledgment to recognize a donation to—

>             “(A) the National Park Service; or

>             “(B) the National Park System.

>         “(2)  __Restrictions__  __.—__ 

>         A donor acknowledgment shall not be used to state or imply—

>             “(A) recognition of the donor or any product or service of the donor as an official sponsor, or any similar form of recognition, of the National Park Service or the National Park System;

>             “(B) a National Park Service endorsement of the donor or any product or service of the donor; or

>             “(C) naming rights to any unit of the National Park System or a National Park System facility, including a visitor center.

>         “(3) __Requirements.—__ 

>             “(A)  __Display__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment shall be displayed—

>                 “(i) in a manner that is approved by the Secretary; and

>                 “(ii) for a period of time, as determined by the Secretary, that is commensurate with the amount of the contribution and the life of the structure.

>             “(B)  __Guidelines__  __.—__ 

>             The Secretary shall establish donor acknowledgment guidelines that take into account the unique requirements of individual units and programs of the National Park System.

>             “(C)  __Use of slogans prohibited__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment shall not permit the use of—

>                 “(i) an advertising slogan; or

>                 “(ii) a statement or credit promoting or opposing a political candidate or issue.

>         “(4) __Placement.—__ 

>             “(A)  __Visitor and administrative facilities__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment may be located on or inside a visitor center or administrative facility of the National Park System (including in a specific room or section) or any other appropriate location, such as on a donor recognition wall or plaque.

>             “(B)  __Outside__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment may be located in an area outside of a visitor or administrative facility described in subparagraph (A), including a bench, brick, pathway, area of landscaping, or plaza.

>             “(C)  __Projects__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment may be located near a park construction or restoration project, if the donation directly relates to the project.

>             “(D)  __Vehicles__  __.—__ 

>             A donor acknowledgment may be placed on a National Park Service vehicle, if the donation directly relates to the vehicle.

>             “(E)  __Limitation__  __.—__ 

>             Any donor acknowledgment associated with a historic structure or placed outside a park restoration project—

>                 “(i) shall be freestanding; and

>                 “(ii) shall not obstruct a natural or historical site or view.

>         “(5)  __Printed, digital, and media platforms__  __.—__ 

>         The Secretary may authorize the use of donor acknowledgments under this subsection to include donor acknowledgments on printed, digital, and media platforms, including brochures or Internet websites relating to a specific unit of the National Park System.

>     “(c)  __Commemorative Works Act Amendments__  __.—__ 

>     \[Amended [section 8905 of Title 40][/us/usc/t40/s8905], Public Buildings, Property, And Works.\]

>     “(d)  __Effect of Section__  __.—__ 

>     Nothing in this section or an amendment made by this section—

>         “(1) requires the Secretary to accept a donation; or

>         “(2) modifies [section 145 of Public Law 108–108][/us/pl/108/108/s145] (\[former\] [16 U.S.C. 1a–1][/us/usc/t16/s1a–1] note \[now [54 U.S.C. 100101][/us/usc/t54/s100101] note\]; [117 Stat. 1280][/us/stat/117/1280]).”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schI/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1011_schI.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s101102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3119]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3119
[/us/pl/113/291/s3054]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F291%2Fs3054
[/us/stat/128/3806]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3806
[/us/usc/t40/s8905]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft40%2Fs8905
[/us/pl/108/108/s145]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F108%2Fs145
[/us/usc/t16/s1a–1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs1a%E2%80%931
[/us/usc/t54/s100101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100101
[/us/stat/117/1280]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F117%2F1280


