---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s104901

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1049/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1049.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1049/m__us_usc_t54_s104902.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs104901)

## § 104901. Central warehouses at System units

    (a)  __Authority of Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary, in the administration of the System, may maintain central warehouses at System units.

    (b) __Appropriations.—__ 

        (1)  __Availability__  __.—__ 

        Appropriations made for the administration, protection, maintenance, and improvement of System units shall be available for the purchase of supplies and materials to be kept in central warehouses for distribution at cost, including transportation and handling, to projects under specific appropriations.

        (2) __Transfers between appropriations.—__ 

            (A)  __Authorization__  __.—__ 

            Transfers between the various appropriations made for System units are authorized for the purpose of charging the cost of supplies and materials, including transportation and handling, drawn from central warehouses maintained under this authority to the particular appropriation benefited.

            (B)  __Availability of supplies and materials and transfers in subsequent years__  __.—__ 

            Supplies and materials that remain at the end of any fiscal year shall be continuously available for issuance during subsequent fiscal years and shall be charged for by transfers of funds between appropriations made for the administration, protection, maintenance, and improvement of System units for the fiscal year then current without decreasing the appropriations made for that fiscal year.

    (c)  __Limitation on Purchase of Supplies and Materials__  __.—__ 

    Supplies and materials shall not be purchased solely for the purpose of increasing the value of storehouse stock beyond reasonable requirements for any current fiscal year.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3167][/us/stat/128/3167].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

104901  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 16  </td>

    <td> 

Apr. 18, 1930, ch. 187, 46 Stat. 219.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1049/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1049.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1049/m__us_usc_t54_s104902.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs104901)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3167]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3167


