---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s309101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3091/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3091.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3111.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs309101)

## § 309101. Sites and structures that commemorate former Presidents

    (a)  __Survey__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may conduct a survey of sites that the Secretary considers exhibit qualities most appropriate for the commemoration of each former President. The survey may—

        (1) include sites associated with the deeds, leadership, or lifework of a former President; and

        (2) identify sites or structures historically unrelated to a former President but that may be suitable as a memorial to honor that President.

    (b)  __Reports__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall, from time to time, prepare and transmit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate reports on individual sites and structures identified in a survey under subsection (a), together with the Secretary’s recommendation as to whether the site or structure is suitable for establishment as a national historic site or national memorial to commemorate a former President. Each report shall include pertinent information with respect to the need for acquisition of land and interests in land, the development of facilities, and the operation and maintenance of the site or structure and the estimated cost of the operation and maintenance.

    (c)  __Establishment as National Historic Site__  __.—__ 

    If during the 6-month period following the transmittal of a report pursuant to subsection (b) neither Committee has by vote of a majority of its members disapproved a recommendation of the Secretary that a site or structure is suitable for establishment as a national historic site, the Secretary may by appropriate order establish the site or structure as a national historic site, including the land and interests in land identified in the report accompanying the recommendation of the Secretary.

    (d)  __Acquistion __  __ <sup>\[__  __1__  __\]</sup> __  __ <sup><sup> __  __1__  __ So in original. Probably should be “__  __Acquisition__  __”.__  __ </sup></sup> __  __ of Land and Interests in Land__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may acquire the land and interests in land by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any other Federal agency, or exchange.

    (e)  __Effect of Section__  __.—__ 

    Nothing in this section shall be construed as diminishing the authority of the Secretary under chapter 3201 of this title or as authorizing the Secretary to establish any national memorial, creation of which is expressly reserved to Congress.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3246][/us/stat/128/3246].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

309101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 467b(a) through (c)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 96–199, title I, § 120(a) through (c), Mar. 5, 1980, 94 Stat. 73; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(26), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (d), the words “and he shall administer the site in accordance with sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, as amended and supplemented, and sections 461 to 467 of this title, as amended” are omitted as unnecessary because a site established under this section is a System unit that the Secretary administers under [16 U.S.C. 1][/us/usc/t16/s1], 2, 3, 4, and 461 to 467, restated as section 100101(a), chapter 1003, sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753, and 102101, and chapter 3201 of the new title.

 __Subdivision 2—Administered Jointly With National Park Service__ 

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3091/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3091.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3111.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs309101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3246]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3246
[/us/usc/t16/s1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs1


