---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s230503

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2305/m__us_usc_t36_s230502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2305/m__us_usc_t36_s230504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230503)

## § 230503. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of incorporation, constitution, and bylaws and include a commitment—

    (1) to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States;

    (2) to foster improvement of the condition of Vietnam-era veterans;

    (3) to promote the social welfare (including educational, economic, social, physical, and cultural improvement) of Vietnam-era veterans and other veterans in the United States by encouraging their growth, development, readjustment, self-respect, self-confidence, and usefulness;

    (4) to improve conditions for Vietnam-era veterans and develop channels of communication to assist Vietnam-era veterans;

    (5)

     to conduct and publish research, on a nonpartisan basis, pertaining to—

        (A) the relationship between Vietnam-era veterans and American society;

        (B) the Vietnam war experience;

        (C) the role of the United States in securing peaceful coexistence for the world community; and

        (D) other matters that affect the educational, economic, social, physical, or cultural welfare of Vietnam-era veterans, other veterans, and their families;

    (6) to assist disabled Vietnam-era veterans and other veterans in need of assistance and the dependents and survivors of those veterans; and

    (7) to consecrate the efforts of the members of the corporation, and Vietnam-era veterans generally, to mutual helpfulness and service to their country.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1486][/us/stat/112/1486].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230503  </td>

    <td> 

36:3803.  </td>

    <td> 

May 23, 1986, Pub. L. 99–318, § 3, 100 Stat. 474.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2305/m__us_usc_t36_s230502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2305/m__us_usc_t36_s230504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230503)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1486]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1486


