---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s200503

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200502.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200503)

## § 200503. Rehabilitation grants and innovation grants

    (a)  __Matching Grants__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may provide 70 percent matching rehabilitation grants and innovation grants directly to eligible general purpose local governments on the Secretary’s approval of applications for the grants by the chief executive officials of those governments.

    (b)  __Special Considerations__  __.—__ 

    An innovation grant should be closely tied to goals, priorities, and implementation strategies expressed in local park and recreation recovery action programs, with particular regard to the special considerations listed in [section 200504(c)(2) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s200504/c/2].

    (c)  __Transfer__  __.—__ 

    If consistent with an approved application, a grant recipient may transfer a rehabilitation grant or innovation grant in whole or in part to an independent special purpose local government, private nonprofit agency, or county or regional park authority if the assisted recreation area or facility owned or managed by the transferree offers recreation opportunities to the general population within the jurisdictional boundaries of the grant recipient.

    (d)  __Payments__  __.—__ 

    Payments may be made only for a rehabilitation project or innovation project that has been approved by the Secretary. Payments may be made from time to time in keeping with the rate of progress toward the satisfactory completion of the project, except that the Secretary, when appropriate, may make advance payments on an approved rehabilitation project or innovation project in an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the total project cost.

    (e)  __Modification of Project__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may authorize modification of an approved project only when a grant recipient adequately demonstrates that the modification is necessary because of circumstances not foreseeable at the time at which the project was proposed.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3183][/us/stat/128/3183].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200503  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 2505  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 95–625, title X, § 1006, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3541.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “chief executive officials” are substituted for “chief executives” for consistency in the new title.

    In subsection (c), the words “At the discretion of such applicants” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200502.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200503)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s200504/c/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200504%2Fc%2F2
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3183]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3183


