---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s200501

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_stII_ch2005.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200502.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200501)

## § 200501. Definitions

    In this chapter:

    (1) __At-risk youth recreation grant.—__ 

        (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The term “at-risk youth recreation grant” means a grant in a neighborhood or community with a high prevalence of crime, particularly violent crime or crime committed by youthful offenders.

        (B)  __Inclusions__  __.—__ 

        The term “at-risk youth recreation grant” includes—

            (i) a rehabilitation grant;

            (ii) an innovation grant; and

            (iii) a matching grant for continuing program support for a program of demonstrated value or success in providing constructive alternatives to youth at risk for engaging in criminal behavior, including a grant for operating, or coordinating, a recreation program or service.

        (C)  __Additional uses of rehabilitation grant__  __.—__ 

        In addition to the purposes specified in paragraph (8), a rehabilitation grant that serves as an at-risk youth recreation grant may be used for the provision of lighting, emergency phones, or any other capital improvement that will improve the security of an urban park.

    (2)  __General purpose local government__  __.—__ 

    The term “general purpose local government” means—

        (A) a city, county, town, township, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; and

        (B) the District of Columbia.

    (3)  __Innovation grant__  __.—__ 

    The term “innovation grant” means a matching grant to a local government to cover costs of personnel, facilities, equipment, supplies, or services designed to demonstrate innovative and cost-effective ways to augment park and recreation opportunities at the neighborhood level and to address common problems related to facility operations and improved delivery of recreation service, not including routine operation and maintenance activities.

    (4)  __Maintenance__  __.—__ 

    The term “maintenance” means all commonly accepted practices necessary to keep recreation areas and facilities operating in a state of good repair and to protect them from deterioration resulting from normal wear and tear.

    (5)  __Private, nonprofit agency__  __.—__ 

    The term “private, nonprofit agency” means a community-based, nonprofit organization, corporation, or association organized for purposes of providing recreational, conservation, and educational services directly to urban residents on a neighborhood or communitywide basis through voluntary donations, voluntary labor, or public or private grants.

    (6) __Recovery action program grant.—__ 

        (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The term “recovery action program grant” means a matching grant to a local government for development of local park and recreation recovery action programs to meet the requirements of this chapter.

        (B)  __Use__  __.—__ 

        A recovery action program grant shall be used for resource and needs assessment, coordination, citizen involvement and planning, and program development activities to—

            (i) encourage public definition of goals; and

            (ii) develop priorities and strategies for overall recreation system recovery.

    (7)  __Recreation area or facility__  __.—__ 

    The term “recreation area or facility” means an indoor or outdoor park, building, site, or other facility that is dedicated to recreation purposes and administered by a public or private nonprofit agency to serve the recreation needs of community residents. Emphasis shall be on public facilities readily accessible to residential neighborhoods, including multiple-use community centers that have recreation as one of their primary purposes, but excluding major sports arenas, exhibition areas, and conference halls used primarily for commercial sports, spectator, or display activities.

    (8)  __Rehabilitation grant__  __.—__ 

    The term “rehabilitation grant” means a matching capital grant to a local government for rebuilding, remodeling, expanding, or developing an existing outdoor or indoor recreation area or facility, including improvements in park landscapes, buildings, and support facilities, but excluding routine maintenance and upkeep activities.

    (9) __Special purpose local government.—__ 

        (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The term “special purpose local government” means a local or regional special district, public-purpose corporation, or other limited political subdivision of a State.

        (B)  __Inclusions__  __.—__ 

        The term “special purpose local government” includes—

            (i) a park authority;

            (ii) a park, conservation, water, or sanitary district; and

            (iii) a school district.

    (10)  __State__  __.—__ 

    The term “State” means a State, an instrumentality of a State approved by the Governor of the State, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3180][/us/stat/128/3180].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200501  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 2503  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 95–625, title X, § 1004, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3539; Pub. L. 103–322, title III, §  31502, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1888.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In paragraph (1)(C), the words “that serves as an at-risk youth recreation grant” are substituted for “referred to in paragraph (1) of this subsection” for clarity.

    In paragraph (2), the word “parish” is omitted because of [1 U.S.C. 2][/us/usc/t1/s2].

 __Congressional Statement of Purpose; Complementary Program Authorization; Terms and Conditions__ 

[Pub. L. 95–625, title X, § 1003][/us/pl/95/625/s1003], Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3539][/us/stat/92/3539]; [Pub. L. 103–322, title III][/us/pl/103/322], §§ 31501, 31505(b), Sept. 13, 1994, [108 Stat. 1888][/us/stat/108/1888], 1890, provided that: 

> “The purpose of this title \[now chapter 2005 of Title 54, National Park Service and Related Programs\] is to authorize the Secretary \[of the Interior\] to establish an urban park and recreation recovery program which would provide Federal grants to economically hard-pressed communities specifically for the rehabilitation of critically needed recreation areas, facilities, and development of improved recreation programs. This program is intended to complement existing Federal programs such as the Land and Water Conservation Fund and Community Development Grant Programs by encouraging and stimulating local governments to revitalize their park and recreation systems and to make long-term commitments to continuing maintenance of these systems. Such assistance shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate and in the public interest to carry out the purposes of this title. It is further the purpose of this title to improve recreation facilities and expand recreation services in urban areas with a high incidence of crime and to help deter crime through the expansion of recreation opportunities for at-risk youth. It is the further purpose of this section \[probably means title\] to increase the security of urban parks and to promote collaboration between local agencies involved in parks and recreation, law enforcement, youth social services, and juvenile justice system.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_stII_ch2005.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200502.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200501)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3180]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3180
[/us/usc/t1/s2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft1%2Fs2
[/us/pl/95/625/s1003]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F95%2F625%2Fs1003
[/us/stat/92/3539]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F92%2F3539
[/us/pl/103/322]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F103%2F322
[/us/stat/108/1888]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F108%2F1888


