---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s200502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200501.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200502)

## § 200502. Federal assistance

    (a)  __Eligibility Determined by Secretary__  __.—__ 

    Eligibility of general purpose local governments for assistance under this chapter shall be based on need as determined by the Secretary. The Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a list of local governments eligible to participate in this program, to be accompanied by a discussion of criteria used in determining eligibility. Criteria shall be based on factors that the Secretary determines are related to deteriorated recreational facilities or systems and physical and economic distress.

    (b)  __Additional Eligible General Purpose Local Governments__  __.—__ 

    In addition to eligible local governments established in accordance with subsection (a), the Secretary may establish eligibility, in accord with the findings and purpose of the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 ([Public Law 95–625][/us/pl/95/625], [92 Stat. 3538][/us/stat/92/3538]), of other general purpose local governments in metropolitan statistical areas as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

    (c) __Priority Criteria for Project Selection and Approval.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall establish priority criteria for project selection and approval that consider such factors as—

            (A) population;

            (B) condition of existing recreation areas and facilities;

            (C) demonstrated deficiencies in access to neighborhood recreation opportunities, particularly for minority and low- and moderate-income residents;

            (D) public participation in determining rehabilitation or development needs;

            (E) the extent to which a project supports or complements target activities undertaken as part of a local government’s overall community development and urban revitalization program;

            (F)

             the extent to which a proposed project would provide—

                (i) employment opportunities for minorities, youth, and low- and moderate-income residents in the project neighborhood;

                (ii) for participation of neighborhood, nonprofit, or tenant organizations in the proposed rehabilitation activity or in subsequent maintenance, staffing, or supervision of recreation areas and facilities; or

                (iii) both; and

            (G) the amount of State and private support for a project as evidenced by commitments of non-Federal resources to project construction or operation.

        (2)  __At-risk youth recreation grants__  __.—__ 

        For at-risk youth recreation grants, the Secretary shall give a priority to each of the following criteria:

            (A) Programs that are targeted to youth who are at the greatest risk of becoming involved in violence and crime.

            (B) Programs that teach important values and life skills, including teamwork, respect, leadership, and self-esteem.

            (C) Programs that offer tutoring, remedial education, mentoring, and counseling in addition to recreation opportunities.

            (D) Programs that offer services during late night or other nonschool hours.

            (E) Programs that demonstrate collaboration between local park and recreation, juvenile justice, law enforcement, and youth social service agencies and nongovernmental entities, including the private sector and community and nonprofit organizations.

            (F) Programs that leverage public or private recreation investments in the form of services, materials, or cash.

            (G) Programs that show the greatest potential of being continued with non-Federal funds or that can serve as models for other communities.

    (d)  __Limitation of Funds__  __.—__ 

    Grants to discretionary applicants under subsection (b) may not be more than 15 percent of the total amount of funds appropriated under this chapter for rehabilitation grants, innovation grants, and recovery action program grants.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3181][/us/stat/128/3181].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200502  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 2504  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 95–625, title X, § 1005, Nov. 10, 1978, 92 Stat. 3540; Pub. L. 103–322, title III, §  31503, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1889.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “Within one hundred and twenty days after November 10, 1978” are omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (b), the word “standard” is omitted as obsolete. The words “the Director of the Office of Management and Budget” are substituted for “census”. See [31 U.S.C. 1104(d)][/us/usc/t31/s1104/d], Executive Order No. 10253 ([31 U.S.C. 1104][/us/usc/t31/s1104] note), and [44 U.S.C. 3504(e)(3)][/us/usc/t44/s3504/e/3].

 __References in Text__ 

    The Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978 ([Public Law 95–625][/us/pl/95/625], [92 Stat. 3538][/us/stat/92/3538]), referred to in subsec. (b), is title X of [Pub. L. 95–625][/us/pl/95/625], Nov. 10, 1978, [92 Stat. 3538][/us/stat/92/3538], which enacted sections 2501 to 2514 of Title 16, Conservation. The Act was repealed and restated as this chapter by [Pub. L. 113–287][/us/pl/113/287], §§ 3, 7, Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3180][/us/stat/128/3180], 3272. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables. For disposition of former sections of Title 16, see Disposition Table preceding [section 100101 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s100101].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200501.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2005/m__us_usc_t54_s200503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/95/625]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F95%2F625
[/us/stat/92/3538]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F92%2F3538
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3181]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3181
[/us/usc/t31/s1104/d]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft31%2Fs1104%2Fd
[/us/usc/t31/s1104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft31%2Fs1104
[/us/usc/t44/s3504/e/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft44%2Fs3504%2Fe%2F3
[/us/pl/95/625]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F95%2F625
[/us/stat/92/3538]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F92%2F3538
[/us/pl/95/625]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F95%2F625
[/us/stat/92/3538]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F92%2F3538
[/us/pl/113/287]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287
[/us/stat/128/3180]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3180
[/us/usc/t54/s100101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100101


