---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s300101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3001/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3001.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3003/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3003.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs300101)

## § 300101. Policy

    It is the policy of the Federal Government, in cooperation with other nations and in partnership with States, local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and private organizations and individuals, to—

    (1) use measures, including financial and technical assistance, to foster conditions under which our modern society and our historic property can exist in productive harmony and fulfill the social, economic, and other requirements of present and future generations;

    (2) provide leadership in the preservation of the historic property of the United States and of the international community of nations and in the administration of the national preservation program;

    (3) administer federally owned, administered, or controlled historic property in a spirit of stewardship for the inspiration and benefit of present and future generations;

    (4) contribute to the preservation of nonfederally owned historic property and give maximum encouragement to organizations and individuals undertaking preservation by private means;

    (5) encourage the public and private preservation and utilization of all usable elements of the Nation’s historic built environment; and

    (6) assist State and local governments, Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations, and the National Trust to expand and accelerate their historic preservation programs and activities.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3187][/us/stat/128/3187].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

300101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470–1  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, § 2, as added Pub. L. 96–515, title I, § 101(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2988; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4002, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4753.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    The words “Native Hawaiian organizations” are added for consistency in the section.

    In paragraph (2), the words “in partnership with States, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiians, and local governments” are omitted as unnecessary because the words are used in the introductory material of this section.

 __Ex. Ord. No. 11593. Protection and Enhancement of the Cultural Environment__ 

    Ex. Ord. No. 11593, May 13, 1971, 36 F.R. 8921, provided:

By virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States and in furtherance of the purposes and policies of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ([83 Stat. 852][/us/stat/83/852], [42 U.S.C. 4321][/us/usc/t42/s4321] et seq.), the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 ([80 Stat. 915][/us/stat/80/915], [16 U.S.C. 470][/us/usc/t16/s470] et seq.) \[see [54 U.S.C. 300101][/us/usc/t54/s300101] et seq.\], the Historic Sites Act of 1935 ([49 Stat. 666][/us/stat/49/666], [16 U.S.C. 461][/us/usc/t16/s461] et seq.) \[see [54 U.S.C. 320101][/us/usc/t54/s320101] et seq.\], and the Antiquities Act of 1906 ([34 Stat. 225][/us/stat/34/225], [16 U.S.C. 431][/us/usc/t16/s431] et seq.) \[see [54 U.S.C. 320301][/us/usc/t54/s320301] et seq.\], it is ordered as follows:

    Section 1. Policy. The Federal Government shall provide leadership in preserving, restoring and maintaining the historic and cultural environment of the Nation. Agencies of the executive branch of the Government (hereinafter referred to as “Federal agencies”) shall (1) administer the cultural properties under their control in a spirit of stewardship and trusteeship for future generations, (2) initiate measures necessary to direct their policies, plans and programs in such a way that federally owned sites, structures, and objects of historical, architectural or archaeological significance are preserved, restored and maintained for the inspiration and benefit of the people, and (3), in consultation with the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation ([16 U.S.C. 470i][/us/usc/t16/s470i]), institute procedures to assure that Federal plans and programs contribute to the preservation and enhancement of non-federally owned sites, structures and objects of historical, architectural or archaeological significance.

Sec. 2. Responsibilities of Federal agencies. Consonant with the provisions of the acts cited in the first paragraph of this order, the heads of Federal agencies shall:

    (a) no later than July 1, 1973, with the advice of the Secretary of the Interior, and in cooperation with the liaison officer for historic preservation for the State or territory involved, locate, inventory, and nominate to the Secretary of the Interior all sites, buildings, districts, and objects under their jurisdiction or control that appear to qualify for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

    (b) exercise caution during the interim period until inventories and evaluations required by subsection (a) are completed to assure that any federally owned property that might qualify for nomination is not inadvertently transferred, sold, demolished or substantially altered. The agency head shall refer any questionable actions to the Secretary of the Interior for an opinion respecting the property’s eligibility for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places. The Secretary shall consult with the liaison officer for historic preservation for the State or territory involved in arriving at his opinion. Where, after a reasonable period in which to review and evaluate the property, the Secretary determines that the property is likely to meet the criteria prescribed for listing on the National Register of Historic Places, the Federal agency head shall reconsider the proposal in light of national environmental and preservation policy. Where, after such reconsideration, the Federal agency head proposes to transfer, sell, demolish or substantially alter the property he shall not act with respect to the property until the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation shall have been provided an opportunity to comment on the proposal.

    (c) initiate measures to assure that where as a result of Federal action or assistance a property listed on the National Register of Historic Places is to be substantially altered or demolished, timely steps be taken to make or have made records, including measured drawings, photographs and maps, of the property, and that copy of such records then be deposited in the Library of Congress as part of the Historic American Buildings Survey or Historic American Engineering Record for future use and reference. Agencies may call on the Department of the Interior for advice and technical assistance in the completion of the above records.

    (d) initiate measures and procedures to provide for the maintenance, through preservation, rehabilitation, or restoration, of federally owned and registered sites at professional standards prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.

    (e) submit procedures required pursuant to subsection (d) to the Secretary of the Interior and to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation no later than January 1, 1972, and annually thereafter, for review and comment.

    (f) cooperate with purchasers and transferees of a property listed on the National Register of Historic Places in the development of viable plans to use such property in a manner compatible with preservation objectives and which does not result in an unreasonable economic burden to public or private interests.

    Sec. 3. Responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior shall:

    (a) encourage State and local historic preservation officials to evaluate and survey federally owned historic properties and, where appropriate, to nominate such properties for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

    (b) develop criteria and procedures to be applied by Federal agencies in the reviews and nominations required by section 2(a). Such criteria and procedures shall be developed in consultation with the affected agencies.

    (c) expedite action upon nominations to the National Register of Historic Places concerning federally owned properties proposed for sale, transfer, demolition or substantial alteration.

    (d) encourage State and Territorial liaison officers for historic preservation to furnish information upon request to Federal agencies regarding their properties which have been evaluated with respect to historic, architectural or archaeological significance and which as a result of such evaluations have not been found suitable for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

    (e) develop and make available to Federal agencies and State and local governments information concerning professional methods and techniques for preserving, improving, restoring and maintaining historic properties.

    (f) advise Federal agencies in the evaluation, identification, preservation, improvement, restoration and maintenance of historic properties.

    (g) review and evaluate the plans of transferees of surplus Federal properties transferred for historic monument purposes to assure that the historic character of such properties is preserved in rehabilitation, restoration, improvement, maintenance and repair of such properties.

    (h) review and comment upon Federal agency procedures submitted pursuant to section 2(e) of this order.

                              Richard Nixon.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3001/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3001.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3003/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3003.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs300101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3187]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3187
[/us/stat/83/852]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F83%2F852
[/us/usc/t42/s4321]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs4321
[/us/stat/80/915]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F80%2F915
[/us/usc/t16/s470]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs470
[/us/usc/t54/s300101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs300101
[/us/stat/49/666]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F49%2F666
[/us/usc/t16/s461]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs461
[/us/usc/t54/s320101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs320101
[/us/stat/34/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F34%2F225
[/us/usc/t16/s431]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs431
[/us/usc/t54/s320301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs320301
[/us/usc/t16/s470i]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs470i


