---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308705

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308705)

## § 308705. Designation of America’s National Maritime Museum

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    America’s National Maritime Museum shall be composed of the museums designated by law to be museums of America’s National Maritime Museum on the basis that the museums—

        (1) house a collection of maritime artifacts clearly representing the Nation’s maritime heritage; and

        (2) provide outreach programs to educate the public about the Nation’s maritime heritage.

    (b)  __Initial Designation__  __.—__ 

    The following museums (meeting the criteria specified in subsection (a)) are designated as museums of America’s National Maritime Museum:

        (1) The Mariners’ Museum, located at 100 Museum Drive, Newport News, Virginia.

        (2) The South Street Seaport Museum, located at 207 Front Street, New York, New York.

    (c)  __Future Designation of Other Museums Not Precluded__  __.—__ 

    The designation of the museums referred to in subsection (b) as museums of America’s National Maritime Museum does not preclude the designation by law of any other museum that meets the criteria specified in subsection (a) as a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum.

    (d)  __Reference to Museums__  __.—__ 

    Any reference in any law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to a museum designated by law to be a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum shall be deemed to be a reference to that museum as a museum of America’s National Maritime Museum.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3242][/us/stat/128/3242].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308705  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5409  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–261, div. A, title X, § 1068, Oct. 17, 1998, 112 Stat. 2135.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308705)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3242]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3242


