---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308703

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308702.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308704.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308703)

## § 308703. National Maritime Heritage Grants Program

    (a)  __Establishment__  __.—__ 

    There is established in the Department of the Interior the National Maritime Heritage Grants Program, to foster in the American public a greater awareness and appreciation of the role of maritime endeavors in our Nation’s history and culture. The Program shall consist of—

        (1) annual grants to the National Trust for subgrants administered by the National Trust for maritime heritage education projects under subsection (b); and

        (2) grants to State Historic Preservation Officers for maritime heritage preservation projects carried out or administered by those Officers under subsection (c).

    (b) __Grants for Maritime Heritage Education Projects.—__ 

        (1)  __Grants to national trust__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary, subject to paragraph (2), and the availability of amounts for that purpose under [section 308704(b)(1)(A) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308704/b/1/A], shall make an annual grant to the National Trust for maritime heritage education projects.

        (2)  __Use of grants__  __.—__ 

        Amounts received by the National Trust as an annual grant under this subsection shall be used to make subgrants to State and local governments and private nonprofit organizations to carry out education projects that have been approved by the Secretary under subsection (f) and that consist of—

            (A)

             assistance to any maritime museum or historical society for—

                (i) existing and new educational programs, exhibits, educational activities, conservation, and interpretation of artifacts and collections;

                (ii) minor improvements to educational and museum facilities; and

                (iii) other similar activities;

            (B)

             activities designed to encourage the preservation of traditional maritime skills, including—

                (i) building and operation of vessels of all sizes and types for educational purposes;

                (ii) special skills such as wood carving, sail making, and rigging;

                (iii) traditional maritime art forms; and

                (iv) sail training;

            (C)

             other educational activities relating to historic maritime resources, including—

                (i) maritime  educational  waterborne-experience programs in historic vessels or vessel reproductions;

                (ii) maritime archeological field schools; and

                (iii) educational programs on other aspects of maritime history;

            (D) heritage programs focusing on maritime historic resources, including maritime heritage trails and corridors; or

            (E) the construction and use of reproductions of historic maritime resources for educational purposes, if a historic maritime resource no longer exists or would be damaged or consumed through direct use.

    (c) __Grants for Maritime Heritage Preservation Projects.—__ 

        (1)  __Grants to state historic preservation officers__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary, acting through the National Maritime Initiative of the Service and subject to paragraph (2), and the availability of amounts for that purpose under [section 308704(b)(1)(B) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308704/b/1/B], shall make grants to State Historic Preservation Officers for maritime heritage preservation projects.

        (2)  __Use of grants__  __.—__ 

        Amounts received by a State Historic Preservation Officer as a grant under this subsection shall be used by the Officer to carry out, or to make subgrants to local governments and private nonprofit organizations to carry out, projects that have been approved by the Secretary under subsection (f) for the preservation of historic maritime resources through—

            (A) identification of historic maritime resources, including underwater archeological sites;

            (B) acquisition of historic maritime resources for the purposes of preservation;

            (C) repair, restoration, stabilization, maintenance, or other capital improvements to historic maritime resources, in accordance with standards prescribed by the Secretary; and

            (D) research, recording (through drawings, photographs, or otherwise), planning (through feasibility studies, architectural and engineering services, or otherwise), and other services carried out as part of a preservation program for historic maritime resources.

    (d)  __Criteria for Direct Grant and Subgrant Eligibility__  __.—__ 

    To qualify for a subgrant from the National Trust under subsection (b), or a direct grant to or a subgrant from a State Historic Preservation Officer under subsection (c), a person shall—

        (1) demonstrate that the project for which the direct grant or subgrant will be used has the potential for reaching a broad audience with an effective educational program based on American maritime history, technology, or the role of maritime endeavors in American culture;

        (2) match the amount of the direct grant or subgrant, on a 1-to-1 basis, with non-Federal assets from non-Federal sources, which may include cash or donated services fairly valued as determined by the Secretary;

        (3)

         maintain records as may be reasonably necessary to fully disclose—

            (A) the amount and the disposition of the proceeds of the direct grant or subgrant;

            (B) the total cost of the project for which the direct grant or subgrant is made; and

            (C) other records as may be required by the Secretary, including such records as will facilitate an effective accounting for project funds;

        (4) provide access to the Secretary for the purposes of any required audit and examination of any records of the person; and

        (5) be a unit of State or local government, or a private nonprofit organization.

    (e) __Procedures, Terms, and Conditions.—__ 

        (1)  __Application procedures__  __.—__ 

        An application for a subgrant under subsection (b), or a direct grant or subgrant under subsection (c), shall be submitted under procedures prescribed by the Secretary.

        (2)  __Terms and conditions__  __.—__ 

        A person may not receive a subgrant under subsection (b), or a direct grant or subgrant under subsection (c), unless the person agrees to assume, after completion of the project for which the direct grant or subgrant is awarded, the total cost of the continued maintenance, repair, and administration of any property for which the subgrant will be used in a manner satisfactory to the Secretary.

    (f) __Allocation of, and Limitation on, Grant Funding.—__ 

        (1)  __Allocation__  __.—__ 

        To the extent feasible, the Secretary shall ensure that the amount made available under subsection (b) for maritime heritage education projects is equal to the amount made available under subsection (c) for maritime heritage preservation projects.

        (2)  __Limitation__  __.—__ 

        The amount provided by the Secretary in a fiscal year as grants under this section for projects relating to historic maritime resources owned or operated by the Federal Government shall not exceed 40 percent of the total amount available for the fiscal year for grants under this section.

    (g)  __Publication of Direct Grant and Subgrant Information__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall publish annually in the Federal Register and otherwise as the Secretary considers appropriate—

        (1) a solicitation of applications for direct grants and subgrants under this section;

        (2) a list of priorities for the making of those direct grants and subgrants;

        (3) a single deadline for the submission of applications for those direct grants and subgrants; and

        (4) other relevant information.

    (h) __Direct Grant and Subgrant Administration.—__ 

        (1) __Responsibility.—__ 

            (A)  __National trust__  __.—__ 

            The National Trust is responsible for administering subgrants for maritime heritage education projects under subsection (b).

            (B)  __Secretary__  __.—__ 

            The Secretary is responsible for administering direct grants for maritime heritage preservation projects under subsection (c).

            (C)  __State historic preservation officers__  __.—__ 

            State Historic Preservation Officers are responsible for administering subgrants for maritime heritage preservation projects under subsection (c).

        (2)  __Actions__  __.—__ 

        The appropriate responsible party under paragraph (1) shall administer direct grants or subgrants by—

            (A) publicizing the Program to prospective grantees, subgrantees, and the public at large, in cooperation with the Service, the Maritime Administration, and other appropriate government agencies and private institutions;

            (B) answering inquiries from the public, including providing information on the Program as requested;

            (C) distributing direct grant and subgrant applications;

            (D) receiving direct grant and subgrant applications and ensuring their completeness;

            (E) keeping records of all direct grant and subgrant awards and expenditures of funds;

            (F) monitoring progress of projects carried out with direct grants and subgrants; and

            (G) providing to the Secretary such progress reports as may be required by the Secretary.

    (i)  __Assistance of Maritime Preservation Organizations__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary, the National Trust, and the State Historic Preservation Officers may, individually or jointly, enter into cooperative agreements with any private nonprofit organization with appropriate expertise in maritime preservation issues, or other qualified maritime preservation organizations, to assist in the administration of the Program.

    (j)  __Report to Congress__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall submit to Congress an annual report on the Program, including—

        (1) a description of each project funded under the Program in the period covered by the report;

        (2) the results or accomplishments of each such project; and

        (3) recommended priorities for achieving the policy set forth in [section 308701 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308701].

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3238][/us/stat/128/3238].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308703  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5403.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 103–451, § 4, Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4770.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    The text of [16 U.S.C. 5403(j)][/us/usc/t16/s5403/j] is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (a), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5403(a)(3)][/us/usc/t16/s5403/a/3] is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsections (b)(1) and (c)(1), the references are to paragraph (2) to correct errors in the source provisions.

    In subsection (d)(4), the word “records” is substituted for “books, documents, papers, and records” to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (f), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5403(f)(1)][/us/usc/t16/s5403/f/1] is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (g), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5403(g)(2)][/us/usc/t16/s5403/g/2] is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (h)(2), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5403(h)(5)][/us/usc/t16/s5403/h/5] and (6) is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308702.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_s308704.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308703)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s308704/b/1/A]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308704%2Fb%2F1%2FA
[/us/usc/t54/s308704/b/1/B]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308704%2Fb%2F1%2FB
[/us/usc/t54/s308701]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308701
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3238]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3238
[/us/usc/t16/s5403/j]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5403%2Fj
[/us/usc/t16/s5403/a/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5403%2Fa%2F3
[/us/usc/t16/s5403/f/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5403%2Ff%2F1
[/us/usc/t16/s5403/g/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5403%2Fg%2F2
[/us/usc/t16/s5403/h/5]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5403%2Fh%2F5


