---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s170306

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1703/m__us_usc_t36_s170305.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1703/m__us_usc_t36_s170307.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs170306)

## § 170306. Powers

    The corporation has the powers provided in its bylaws and articles of incorporation filed in the State in which it is incorporated, including the power to—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) adopt emblems and badges;

    (4) establish, maintain, and regulate offices to conduct the affairs of the corporation;

    (5) publish a magazine and other publications;

    (6) charge and collect membership dues and subscription fees and receive contributions or grants of money or property to be used to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (7) accept gifts, legacies, and devises that will further the purposes of the corporation;

    (8) promote the formation of auxiliaries, the membership requirements of which shall be as provided in the constitution and the bylaws of the corporation;

    (9) sue and be sued; and

    (10) do any other act necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1443][/us/stat/112/1443].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

170306  </td>

    <td> 

36:3602.  </td>

    <td> 

Oct. 7, 1985, Pub. L. 99–119, § 2, 99 Stat. 498.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the words “(hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the ‘corporation’)” and “and subject to the laws of such State” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (1), the words “alter” and “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State in which the corporation is to operate” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (2), the word “use” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (9), the words “complain, and defend in any court of competent jurisdiction” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (10), the words “lawful”, “and things”, and “objects and” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1703/m__us_usc_t36_s170305.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1703/m__us_usc_t36_s170307.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs170306)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1443]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1443


