---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s1395w–154

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt5/m__us_usc_t42_s1395w–153.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_ch7_schXVIII_ptE.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93154)

## § 1395w–154. Improved Medicare prescription drug plan and MA–PD plan complaint system

    (a) __In general__ 

        The Secretary shall develop and maintain a complaint system, that is widely known and easy to use, to collect and maintain information on MA–PD plan and prescription drug plan complaints that are received (including by telephone, letter, e-mail, or any other means) by the Secretary (including by a regional office of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman, a subcontractor, a carrier, a fiscal intermediary, and a Medicare administrative contractor under [section 1395kk–1 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395kk–1]) through the date on which the complaint is resolved. The system shall be able to report and initiate appropriate interventions and monitoring based on substantial complaints and to guide quality improvement.

    (b) __Model electronic complaint form__ 

        The Secretary shall develop a model electronic complaint form to be used for reporting plan complaints under the system. Such form shall be prominently displayed on the front page of the Medicare.gov Internet website and on the Internet website of the Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman.

    (c) __Annual reports by the Secretary__ 

        The Secretary shall submit to Congress annual reports on the system. Such reports shall include an analysis of the number and types of complaints reported in the system, geographic variations in such complaints, the timeliness of agency or plan responses to such complaints, and the resolution of such complaints.

    (d) __Definitions__ 

    In this section:

        (1) __MA–PD plan__ 

            The term “MA–PD plan” has the meaning given such term in [section 1395w–151(a)(9) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–151/a/9].

        (2) __Prescription drug plan__ 

            The term “prescription drug plan” has the meaning given such term in [section 1395w–151(a)(14) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–151/a/14].

        (3) __Secretary__ 

            The term “Secretary” means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

        (4) __System__ 

            The term “system” means the plan complaint system developed and maintained under subsection (a).

([Pub. L. 111–148, title III, § 3311][/us/pl/111/148/s3311], Mar. 23, 2010, [124 Stat. 475][/us/stat/124/475].)

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, and not as part of the Social Security Act which comprises this chapter.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt5/m__us_usc_t42_s1395w–153.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_ch7_schXVIII_ptE.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93154)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s1395kk–1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395kk%E2%80%931
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–151/a/9]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93151%2Fa%2F9
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–151/a/14]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93151%2Fa%2F14
[/us/pl/111/148/s3311]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F148%2Fs3311
[/us/stat/124/475]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F475


