---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152305

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152304.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152306.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152305)

## § 152305. Powers

The corporation may—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the activities of the corporation require;

    (4) make contracts;

    (5) publish a bulletin, magazine, and other publications;

    (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property;

    (8) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, loans, scholarships, and grants to deserving composers, conductors, and others for the purposes stated in [section 152302 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s152302] and for other purposes the board of directors considers proper;

    (9) sue and be sued; and

    (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1413][/us/stat/112/1413].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152305  </td>

    <td> 

36:664.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 824, §§ 4, 18, 70 Stat. 795, 797.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

36:678.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of 36:678 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

    In clause (1), the words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State in which the Corporation is to operate” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (2), the word “use” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (3), the word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

    Clause (6) is substituted for “take and hold by lease, gift, purchase, grant, devise, or bequest any property, real or personal, necessary for attaining the objects or accomplishing the purposes of the Corporation” and “transfer and convey real or personal property” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject to applicable provisions of law of any State (A) governing the amount or kind of real and personal property which may be held by, or (B) otherwise limiting or controlling the ownership of real and personal property by a corporation operating in such State” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (7), the words “for the purposes of the Corporation” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property” are substituted for “issue bonds therefor, and secure the same by mortgage” for consistency in the revised title. The words “subject to all applicable provisions of Federal or State law” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (8), the words “other purposes the board of directors considers proper” are substituted for “such other purpose as may be determined to be proper by the board of directors” to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In clause (9), the words “complain and defend in any court of competent jurisdiction” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (10), the words “any other act” are substituted for “any and all acts and things”, and the word “objects” is omitted, to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152304.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152306.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152305)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t36/s152302]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152302
[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1413]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1413


