---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152310

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152309.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152311.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152310)

## § 152310. Service of process

    (a) __District of Columbia.—__ 

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.

    (b) __States, Territories, and Possessions.—__ 

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or other designated official of each State, territory, or possession of the United States in which the corporation does business, the name and address of an agent in that State, territory, or possession on whom legal process or demands against the corporation may be served.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1414][/us/stat/112/1414].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152310(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:665 (2d, 3d sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 824, §§ 5 (2d, 3d sentences), 17, 70 Stat. 796, 797.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152310(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:677.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b), the words “precedent” and “granted to the Corporation” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “with the secretary of state or other designated official” are substituted for “in the office of the Secretary of State, or in the office of another appropriate officer” for consistency in the revised title. The words “post office” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152309.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1523/m__us_usc_t36_s152311.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152310)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1414]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1414


