---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152603

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152602.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152604.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152603)

## § 152603. Board of directors

    (a) __General.—__ 

    The board of directors is the governing body of the foundation.

    (b) __Members and Appointment.—__ 

        (1)

         The board consists of 12 directors, who shall be appointed not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this chapter as follows:

            (A) Four directors (of whom not more than two may be members of the same political party) shall be appointed by the President.

            (B) Two directors shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.

            (C) Two directors shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.

            (D) Two directors shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate.

            (E) Two directors shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate.

        (2) In addition to the directors described in paragraph (1), the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives (or their designees) and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate (or their designees) shall each serve as an ex officio nonvoting member of the board.

        (3) A director is not an employee of the Federal Government and appointment to the board does not constitute appointment as an officer or employee of the United States Government for the purpose of any law of the United States (except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter).

        (4) The terms of office of the directors are 4 years.

        (5) A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

    (c) __Chair.—__ 

    The directors shall select one of the directors as the chair of the board. The individual selected may not be a current or former holder of any partisan elected office or a current or former officer of any national committee of a political party.

    (d) __Quorum.—__ 

    The number of directors constituting a quorum of the board shall be established under the bylaws of the foundation.

    (e) __Meetings.—__ 

    The board shall meet at the call of the chair of the board for regularly scheduled meetings, except that the board shall meet not less often than annually.

    (f) __Reimbursement of Expenses.—__ 

    Directors shall serve without compensation but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5.

    (g) __Liability of Directors.—__ 

    Directors are not personally liable, except for gross negligence.

(Added [Pub. L. 107–252, title VI, § 601(a)][/us/pl/107/252/s601/a], Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1718][/us/stat/116/1718].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 107–252][/us/pl/107/252], which was approved Oct. 29, 2002.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152602.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152604.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152603)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/107/252/s601/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F107%2F252%2Fs601%2Fa
[/us/stat/116/1718]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F116%2F1718
[/us/pl/107/252]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F107%2F252


