---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152602

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152601.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152603.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152602)

## § 152602. Purposes

    (a) __In General.—__ 

    The purposes of the foundation are to—

        (1) mobilize secondary school students (including students educated in the home) in the United States to participate in the election process in a nonpartisan manner as poll workers or assistants (to the extent permitted under applicable State law);

        (2) place secondary school students (including students educated in the home) as nonpartisan poll workers or assistants to local election officials in precinct polling places across the United States (to the extent permitted under applicable State law); and

        (3) establish cooperative efforts with State and local election officials, local educational agencies, superintendents and principals of public and private secondary schools, and other appropriate nonprofit charitable and educational organizations exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of such Code to further the purposes of the foundation.

    (b) __Requiring Activities To Be Carried Out on Nonpartisan Basis.—__ 

    The foundation shall carry out its purposes without partisan bias or without promoting any particular point of view regarding any issue, and shall ensure that each participant in its activities is governed in a balanced manner which does not reflect any partisan bias.

    (c) __Consultation With State Election Officials.—__ 

    The foundation shall carry out its purposes under this section in consultation with the chief election officials of the States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands.

(Added [Pub. L. 107–252, title VI, § 601(a)][/us/pl/107/252/s601/a], Oct. 29, 2002, [116 Stat. 1718][/us/stat/116/1718].)

 __References in Text__ 

    Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsec. (a)(3), is classified to [section 501 of Title 26][/us/usc/t26/s501], Internal Revenue Code.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152601.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1526/m__us_usc_t36_s152603.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152602)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/107/252/s601/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F107%2F252%2Fs601%2Fa
[/us/stat/116/1718]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F116%2F1718
[/us/usc/t26/s501]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft26%2Fs501


