---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s200306

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2003/m__us_usc_t54_s200305.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2003/m__us_usc_t54_s200307.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200306)

## § 200306. Allocation of Fund amounts for Federal purposes

    (a) __Allowable Purposes and Subpurposes.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        Amounts appropriated from the Fund for Federal purposes shall, unless otherwise allotted in the appropriation Act making them available, be allotted by the President for the purposes and subpurposes stated in this subsection.

        (2) __Acquisition of land, water, or an interest in land or water.—__ 

            (A)  __System units and recreation areas administered for recreation purposes__  __.—__ 

            Amounts shall be allotted for the acquisition of land, water, or an interest in land or water within the exterior boundary of—

                (i) a System unit authorized or established; and

                (ii) an area authorized to be administered by the Secretary for outdoor recreation purposes.

            (B) __National forest system.—__ 

                (i)  __In general__  __.—__ 

                Amounts shall be allotted for the acquisition of land, water, or an interest in land or water within inholdings within—

                    (I) wilderness areas of the National Forest System; and

                    (II) other areas of national forests as the boundaries of those forests existed on January 1, 1965, or purchase units approved by the National Forest Reservation Commission subsequent to January 1, 1965, all of which other areas are primarily of value for outdoor recreation purposes.

                (ii)  __Adjacent land__  __.—__ 

                Land outside but adjacent to an existing national forest boundary, not to exceed 3,000 acres in the case of any one forest, that would comprise an integral part of a forest recreational management area may also be acquired with amounts appropriated from the Fund.

                (iii)  __Limitation__  __.—__ 

                Except for areas specifically authorized by Act of Congress, not more than 15 percent of the acreage added to the National Forest System pursuant to this section shall be west of the 100th meridian.

            (C)  __Endangered species and threatened species; fish and wildlife refuge areas; national wildlife refuge system__  __.—__ 

            Amounts shall be allotted for the acquisition of land, water, or an interest in land or water for—

                (i) endangered species and threatened species authorized under section 5(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 ([16 U.S.C. 1534(a)][/us/usc/t16/s1534/a]);

                (ii) areas authorized by section 2 of the Refuge Recreation Act ([16 U.S.C. 460k–1][/us/usc/t16/s460k–1]);

                (iii) national wildlife refuge areas under section 7(a)(4) of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 ([16 U.S.C. 742f(a)(4)][/us/usc/t16/s742f/a/4]) and wetlands acquired under section 304 of the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act of 1986 ([16 U.S.C. 3922][/us/usc/t16/s3922]); and

                (iv) any area authorized for the National Wildlife Refuge System by specific Acts.

        (3)  __Payment as offset of capital costs__  __.—__ 

        Amounts shall be allotted for payment into miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury as a partial offset for capital costs, if any, of Federal water development projects authorized to be constructed by or pursuant to an Act of Congress that are allocated to public recreation and the enhancement of fish and wildlife values and financed through appropriations to water resource agencies.

        (4)  __Availability of appropriations__  __.—__ 

        Appropriations allotted for the acquisition of land, water, or an interest in land or water as set forth under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) shall be available for those acquisitions notwithstanding any statutory ceiling on the appropriations contained in any other provision of law enacted prior to January 4, 1977, or, in the case of national recreation areas, prior to January 15, 1979, except that for any such area expenditures shall not exceed a statutory ceiling during any one fiscal year by 10 percent of the ceiling or $1,000,000, whichever is greater.

    (b)  __Acquisition Restrictions__  __.—__ 

    Appropriations from the Fund pursuant to this section shall not be used for acquisition unless the acquisition is otherwise authorized by law. Appropriations from the Fund may be used for preacquisition work where authorization is imminent and where substantial monetary savings could be realized.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3177][/us/stat/128/3177].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200306  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 460l–9(a), (b).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 88–578, title I, § 7, formerly § 6, Sept. 3, 1964, 78 Stat. 903; Pub. L. 90–401, § 1(c), July 15, 1968, 82 Stat. 355; renumbered § 7, Pub. L. 92–347, § 2, July 11, 1972, 86 Stat. 459; amended Pub. L. 93–205, § 13(c), Dec. 28, 1973, 87 Stat. 902; Pub. L. 94–422, title I, § 101(4), Sept. 28, 1976, 90 Stat. 1317; Pub. L. 95–42, § 1(3)–(5), June 10, 1977, 91 Stat. 210, 211; Pub. L. 96–203, § 2, Mar. 10, 1980, 94 Stat. 81; Pub. L. 99–645, title III, § 302, Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3587; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(p)(3), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4586; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(b), (d)(2)(C), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4194, 4196; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, §§ 120(b), 129, Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 28, 30.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(4), the words “January 4, 1977” are substituted for “the convening of the Ninety-fifth Congress”, and the words “January 15, 1979” are substituted for “ the convening of the Ninety-sixth Congress”, for clarity.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2003/m__us_usc_t54_s200305.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2003/m__us_usc_t54_s200307.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200306)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t16/s1534/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs1534%2Fa
[/us/usc/t16/s460k–1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs460k%E2%80%931
[/us/usc/t16/s742f/a/4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs742f%2Fa%2F4
[/us/usc/t16/s3922]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs3922
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3177]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3177


