---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s230304

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230304)

## § 230304. Governing body

    (a) __National Convention.—__ 

        (1) The national convention is the supreme governing authority of the corporation.

        (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, the form of government of the corporation must be representative of the membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large. Each elected representative is entitled to one vote at the national convention.

        (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the District of Columbia or in any State, territory, or possession of the United States.

    (b) __Board of Administration.—__ 

        (1) During the intervals between the national convention, the board of administration is the governing board of the corporation and is responsible for the general policies, program, and activities of the corporation.

        (2) The board shall consist of at least 7 members elected in the manner and for the term provided in the constitution and bylaws.

    (c) __Officers.—__ 

        (1) The officers of the corporation are a national commander, a national senior vice commander, a national junior vice commander, a national quartermaster, a national adjutant, a national judge advocate, 9 regional vice commanders, and other officers as provided in the constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the offices of national quartermaster and national adjutant.

        (2) The titles, manner of selection, term of office, and duties of the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1483][/us/stat/112/1483].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230304(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:766(a).  </td>

    <td> 

July 18, 1958, Pub. L. 85–530, §§ 6(a), 7, 8, 72 Stat. 372.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230304(b)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

36:767(a).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230304(b)(2)  </td>

    <td> 

36:767(b), (c).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230304(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:768.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(2), the words “always” and “the hands of” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (a)(3), the words “State, territory, or possession of the United States” are substituted for “State or Territory” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

    In subsection (b)(2), the text of 36:767(b) is omitted as executed and obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230304)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1483]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1483


