---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s230302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230302)

## § 230302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, fraternal, historical, and educational, in the service and for the benefit of veterans of World War I, and are—

    (1) to provide for the veterans of World War I an organization for their mutual benefit, pleasure, and amusement which will afford them opportunities and means for personal contact with each other to keep alive friendships and memories of World War I and to venerate the memory of their honored dead;

    (2) to cooperate to the fullest extent and in a harmonious manner with all veterans’ organizations so that the best interests of all veterans of all wars in which the United States has participated, and the widows and orphans of deceased veterans of those wars, may best be served;

    (3) to stimulate communities and political subdivisions into taking more interest in veterans of World War I, the widows and orphans of those deceased veterans, and the problems of those veterans and their widows and orphans;

    (4) to collate, preserve, and encourage the study of historical episodes, chronicles, mementos, and events pertaining to World War I;

    (5) to fight vigorously to uphold the Constitution and laws of the United States as well as the individual States of the Union and to foster the spirit and practice of true Americanism;

    (6) to fight unceasingly for our national security to protect Americans from enemies within our borders, as well as those from without, so that our American way of life is preserved;

    (7) to fight to the utmost all those alien forces, particularly forces such as communism, whose objectives are to deny our very existence as a free people; and

    (8) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1482][/us/stat/112/1482].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230302  </td>

    <td> 

36:763.  </td>

    <td> 

July 18, 1958, Pub. L. 85–530, § 3, 72 Stat. 371.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2303/m__us_usc_t36_s230303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230302)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1482]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1482


