---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s306102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3061/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s306101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3061/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s306103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs306102)

## § 306102. Preservation program

    (a)  __Establishment__  __.—__ 

    Each Federal agency shall establish (except for programs or undertakings exempted pursuant to [section 304108(c) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s304108/c]), in consultation with the Secretary, a preservation program for the identification, evaluation, and nomination to the National Register, and protection, of historic property.

    (b)  __Requirements__  __.—__ 

    The program shall ensure that—

        (1) historic property under the jurisdiction or control of the agency is identified, evaluated, and nominated to the National Register;

        (2) historic property under the jurisdiction or control of the agency is managed and maintained in a way that considers the preservation of their historic, archeological, architectural, and cultural values in compliance with [section 306108 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s306108] and gives special consideration to the preservation of those values in the case of property designated as having national significance;

        (3) the preservation of property not under the jurisdiction or control of the agency but potentially affected by agency actions is given full consideration in planning;

        (4) the agency’s preservation-related activities are carried out in consultation with other Federal, State, and local agencies, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations carrying out historic preservation planning activities, and the private sector; and

        (5)

         the agency’s procedures for compliance with [section 306108 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s306108]—

            (A) are consistent with regulations promulgated by the Council pursuant to section 304108(a) and (b) of this title;

            (B) provide a process for the identification and evaluation of historic property for listing on the National Register and the development and implementation of agreements, in consultation with State Historic Preservation Officers, local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and the interested public, as appropriate, regarding the means by which adverse effects on historic property will be considered; and

            (C) provide for the disposition of Native American cultural items from Federal or tribal land in a manner consistent with section 3(c) of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act ([25 U.S.C. 3002(c)][/us/usc/t25/s3002/c]).

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3225][/us/stat/128/3225].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

306102  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470h–2(a)(2).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 110(a)(2), as added Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 206, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2996; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4012(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4760.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “except for programs and undertakings exempted” are substituted for “unless exempted” for clarity.

    In subsection (b)(2), the words “as are listed in or may be eligible for the National Register” are omitted as unnecessary because of the definition of “historic property” in section 300308 of the new title.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3061/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s306101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3061/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s306103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs306102)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s304108/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs304108%2Fc
[/us/usc/t54/s306108]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs306108
[/us/usc/t54/s306108]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs306108
[/us/usc/t25/s3002/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft25%2Fs3002%2Fc
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3225


