---
---

# 51 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t51/s60148

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schV/m__us_usc_t51_s60147.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schVI/m__us_usc_t51_stVI_ch601_schVI.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft51%2Fs60148)

## § 60148. Enforcement

    (a) __In General.—__ 

    In order to ensure that unenhanced data from the Landsat system received solely for noncommercial purposes are not used for any commercial purpose, the Secretary (in collaboration with private sector entities responsible for the marketing and distribution of unenhanced data generated by the Landsat system) shall develop and implement a system for enforcing this prohibition, in the event that unenhanced data from the Landsat system are made available for noncommercial purposes at a different price than such data are made available for other purposes.

    (b) __Authority of Secretary.—__ 

    Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary may impose any of the enforcement mechanisms described in subsection (c) against a person that—

        (1) receives unenhanced data from the Landsat system under this chapter solely for noncommercial purposes (and at a different price than the price at which such data are made available for other purposes); and

        (2) uses such data for other than noncommercial purposes.

    (c) __Enforcement Mechanisms.—__ 

    Enforcement mechanisms referred to in subsection (b) may include civil penalties of not more than $10,000 (per day per violation), denial of further unenhanced data purchasing privileges, and any other penalties or restrictions the Secretary considers necessary to ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that unenhanced data provided for noncommercial purposes are not used to unfairly compete in the commercial market against private sector entities not eligible for data at the cost of fulfilling user requests.

    (d) __Procedures and Regulations.—__ 

    The Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to carry out this section and shall establish standards and procedures governing the imposition of enforcement mechanisms under subsection (b). The standards and procedures shall include a procedure for potentially aggrieved parties to file formal protests with the Secretary alleging instances where such unenhanced data have been, or are being, used for commercial purposes in violation of the terms of receipt of such data. The Secretary shall promptly act to investigate any such protest, and shall report annually to Congress on instances of such violations.

([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3][/us/pl/111/314/s3], Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3421][/us/stat/124/3421].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

60148  </td>

    <td> 

15 U.S.C. 5658.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 102–555, title V, § 508, Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4179.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (d), in the second sentence, the words “have been, or are being” are substituted for “has been, or is being” to correct an error in the law.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schV/m__us_usc_t51_s60147.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schVI/m__us_usc_t51_stVI_ch601_schVI.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft51%2Fs60148)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/111/314/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F314%2Fs3
[/us/stat/124/3421]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F3421


