---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s102702

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1027/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s102701.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1027/schII/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1027_schII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102702)

## § 102702. Crime prevention assistance

    (a)  __Recommendations for Improvement__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall direct the chief official responsible for law enforcement within the Service to—

        (1) compile a list of System units with the highest rates of violent crime;

        (2) make recommendations concerning capital improvements, and other measures, needed within the System to reduce the rates of violent crime, including the rate of sexual assault; and

        (3) publish the information required by paragraphs (1) and (2) in the Federal Register.

    (b)  __Distribution of Funds__  __.—__ 

    Based on the recommendations and list issued pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall distribute the funds authorized by subsection (d) throughout the System. Priority shall be given to areas with the highest rates of sexual assault.

    (c)  __Use of Funds__  __.—__ 

    Funds provided under this section may be used—

        (1) to increase lighting within or adjacent to System units;

        (2) to provide emergency phone lines to contact law enforcement or security personnel in areas within or adjacent to System units;

        (3) to increase security or law enforcement personnel within or adjacent to System units; or

        (4) for any other project intended to increase the security and safety of System units.

    (d)  __Authorization of Appropriations__  __.—__ 

    There is authorized to be appropriated out of the Violent Crime Reduction Trust Fund not more than $10,000,000 for the Secretary to take all necessary actions to seek to reduce the incidence of violent crime in the System.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3161][/us/stat/128/3161].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102702  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–7a.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 13, as added Pub. L. 103–322, title IV, § 40132, Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 1917.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1027/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s102701.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1027/schII/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1027_schII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102702)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3161]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3161


