---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s303903

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3039/m__us_usc_t54_s303902.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3041.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs303903)

## § 303903. Preservation education and training program

    The Secretary, in consultation with the Council and other appropriate Federal, tribal, Native Hawaiian, and non-Federal organizations, shall develop and implement a comprehensive preservation education and training program. The program shall include—

    (1) standards and increased preservation training opportunities for Federal workers involved in preservation-related functions;

    (2) preservation training opportunities for other Federal, State, tribal and local government workers, and students;

    (3) technical or financial assistance, or both, to historically black colleges and universities, to tribal colleges, and to colleges with a high enrollment of Native Americans or Native Hawaiians, to establish preservation training and degree programs; and

    (4)

     where appropriate, coordination with the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training of—

        (A) distribution of information on preservation technologies;

        (B) provision of training and skill development in trades, crafts, and disciplines related to historic preservation in Federal training and development programs; and

        (C) support for research, analysis, conservation, curation, interpretation, and display related to preservation.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3208][/us/stat/128/3208].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

303903  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(j).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(j), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4008, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4758.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In paragraph (1), the word “new” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In paragraph (2), the word “increased” is omitted as unnecessary.

 __Subdivision__  __3__  __—Advisory Council on Historic Preservation__ 

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3039/m__us_usc_t54_s303902.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3041.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs303903)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3208]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3208


