---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/s2072

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2071.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2073.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2072)

##### § 2072. Hoarding of designated scarce materials

    In order to prevent hoarding, no person shall accumulate (1) in excess of the reasonable demands of business, personal, or home consumption, or (2) for the purpose of resale at prices in excess of prevailing market prices, materials which have been designated by the President as scarce materials or materials the supply of which would be threatened by such accumulation. The President shall order published in the Federal Register, and in such other manner as he may deem appropriate, every designation of materials the accumulation of which is unlawful and any withdrawal of such designation.

    In making such designations the President may prescribe such conditions with respect to the accumulation of materials in excess of the reasonable demands of business, personal, or home consumption as he deems necessary to carry out the objectives of this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\]. This section shall not be construed to limit the authority contained in sections 101 and 704 of this Act \[sections 2071 and 2154 of this Appendix\].

([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932][/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932], title I, § 102, [64 Stat. 799][/us/stat/64/799]; [July 31, 1951, ch. 275][/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275], title I, § 101(b), [65 Stat. 132][/us/stat/65/132].)

 __Amendments__ 

    1951—Act July 31, 1951, authorized President to prescribe conditions and exceptions allowing maintenance of substantial inventories of critical materials in certain cases.

 __Termination Date__ 

    Termination of section, see section 2166(a) of this Appendix.

 __Delegation of Functions__ 

    Functions of President under act Sept. 8, 1950 \[section 2061 et seq. of this Appendix\], relating to production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, delegated to Secretary of Energy, see section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 11790, June 25, 1974, 39 F.R. 23185, set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s761], Commerce and Trade.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2071.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2073.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2072)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932
[/us/stat/64/799]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F64%2F799
[/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1951-07-31%2Fch275
[/us/stat/65/132]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F65%2F132
[/us/usc/t15/s761]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs761


