---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s170103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1701/m__us_usc_t36_s170102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1701/m__us_usc_t36_s170104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs170103)

## § 170103. Membership

An individual is eligible for membership in the corporation if the individual—

    (1) is a citizen of the United States;

    (2) was regularly enlisted, inducted, or commissioned, and was accepted for or on active duty, in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard of the United States or an ally of the United States;

    (3)

        (A) was separated from service in the Armed Forces under conditions other than dishonorable; or

        (B) is on active duty or must continue to serve after the cessation of hostilities; and

    (4) has suffered a spinal cord injury or disease, whether or not service connected in origin.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1440][/us/stat/112/1440].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

170103  </td>

    <td> 

36:1157.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 11, 1971, Pub. L. 92–93, § 7, 85 Stat. 318.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (1), the words “citizen of the United States” are substituted for “American citizen” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

    Clause (3)(A) is substituted for “Service with the Armed Forces must have been terminated by discharge or separation from service under conditions other than dishonorable” to eliminate unnecessary words.

    Clause (3)(B) is substituted for “Provided, however, That persons otherwise eligible for membership who are on active duty or who must continue to serve after the cessation of hostilities are also eligible for membership” to eliminate unnecessary words.

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under [section 542 of Title 6][/us/usc/t6/s542].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1701/m__us_usc_t36_s170102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1701/m__us_usc_t36_s170104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs170103)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1440]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1440
[/us/usc/t6/s542]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft6%2Fs542


