---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220504

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schI/m__us_usc_t36_s220503.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schI/m__us_usc_t36_s220505.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220504)

## § 220504. Membership

    (a)  __Eligibility__  __.—__ 

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation is as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

    (b)  __Required Provisions for Representation__  __.—__ 

    In its constitution and bylaws, the corporation shall establish and maintain provisions with respect to its governance and the conduct of its affairs for reasonable representation of—

        (1) amateur sports organizations recognized as national governing bodies and paralympic sports organizations in accordance with [section 220521 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220521], including through provisions which establish and maintain a National Governing Bodies’ Council composed of representatives of the national governing bodies and any paralympic sports organizations and selected by their boards of directors or such other governing boards to ensure effective communication between the corporation and such national governing bodies and paralympic sports organizations;

        (2)

         amateur athletes who are actively engaged in amateur athletic competition or who have represented the United States in international amateur athletic competition within the preceding 10 years, including through provisions which—

            (A) establish and maintain an Athletes’ Advisory Council composed of, and elected by, such amateur athletes to ensure communication between the corporation and such amateur athletes; and

            (B) ensure that the membership and voting power held by such amateur athletes is not less than 20 percent of the membership and voting power held in the board of directors of the corporation and in the committees and entities of the corporation;

        (3) amateur sports organizations that conduct a national program or regular national amateur athletic competition in 2 or more sports that are included on the program of the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, or the Pan-American Games on a level of proficiency appropriate for the selection of amateur athletes to represent the United States in international amateur athletic competition; and

        (4) individuals not affiliated or associated with any amateur sports organization who, in the corporation’s judgment, represent the interests of the American public in the activities of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1467][/us/stat/112/1467]; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I][/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI], § 142(e), [112 Stat. 2681–603][/us/stat/112/2681-603].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220504  </td>

    <td> 

36:376.  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title I, § 106, as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 1(b), 92 Stat. 3048.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “is as provided in” are substituted for “shall be determined in accordance with” for consistency in the revised title.

 __Amendments__ 

    1998—Subsec. (b)(1), (2). [Pub. L. 105–277][/us/pl/105/277], § 142(e)(1), added pars. (1) and (2) and struck out former pars. (1) and (2) which read as follows:

    “(1) amateur sports organizations recognized as national governing bodies under [section 220521 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220521];

    “(2) amateur athletes who are actively engaged in amateur athletic competition or who have represented the United States in international amateur athletic competition within the preceding 10 years;”.

    Subsec. (b)(3). [Pub. L. 105–277][/us/pl/105/277], § 142(e)(2), inserted “, the Paralympic Games,” after “Olympic Games”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schI/m__us_usc_t36_s220503.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schI/m__us_usc_t36_s220505.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220504)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t36/s220521]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220521
[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1467]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1467
[/us/pl/105/277/dC/tI]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2FdC%2FtI
[/us/stat/112/2681-603]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F2681-603
[/us/pl/105/277]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277
[/us/usc/t36/s220521]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220521
[/us/pl/105/277]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277


