---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s300105

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300104.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300105)

## § 300105. Powers

    (a) __General.—__ 

    The corporation may—

        (1) adopt policies and regulations;

        (2) adopt, alter, and destroy a seal;

        (3) own and dispose of property to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

        (4) accept gifts, devises, and bequests of property to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

        (5) sue and be sued in courts of law and equity, State or Federal, within the jurisdiction of the United States; and

        (6) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter and promote the purposes of the corporation.

    (b) __Designation.—__ 

    The corporation is designated as the organization authorized to act in matters of relief under the treaties of Geneva, August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 12, 1949.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1492][/us/stat/112/1492]; [Pub. L. 110–26, § 7][/us/pl/110/26/s7], May 11, 2007, [121 Stat. 108][/us/stat/121/108].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

300105  </td>

    <td> 

36:2 (1st sentence words between 2d comma and 3d semicolon and after 4th semicolon).  </td>

    <td> 

Jan. 5, 1905, ch. 23, § 2 (1st sentence words between 2d comma and 3d semicolon and after 4th semicolon), 33 Stat. 600; May 8, 1947, ch. 50, § 3, 61 Stat. 81.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(1), the word “adopt” is substituted for “ordain and establish” for consistency in the revised title. The words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (a)(2), the words “adopt, alter, and destroy a seal” are substituted for “adopt a seal and the same to alter and destroy at pleasure” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (a)(3), the words “own and dispose of property” are substituted for “to have and to hold such real and personal estate as shall be deemed advisable and to dispose of the same” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (a)(4), the word “property” is substituted for “real and personal estate” for clarity and consistency in the revised title.

In subsection (a)(6), the word “things” is omitted as included in “act”. The words “carry out this chapter” are substituted for “carry into effect the provisions of sections 1, 2 to 6, 8, and 9 of this title” for clarity and because under 36:1a the corporation existing under those sections continued under the source provisions restated in the revised chapter.

    In subsection (b), the words “treaties of Geneva, August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 12, 1949” are substituted for “said treaties” for clarity and consistency in the chapter.

 __Amendments__ 

    2007—Subsec. (a)(1). [Pub. L. 110–26][/us/pl/110/26] substituted “policies” for “bylaws”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300104.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300105)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1492]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1492
[/us/pl/110/26/s7]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26%2Fs7
[/us/stat/121/108]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F108
[/us/pl/110/26]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26


