---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s300102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300101.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300102)

## § 300102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1)

     to provide volunteer aid in time of war to the sick and wounded of the Armed Forces, in accordance with the spirit and conditions of—

        (A) the conference of Geneva of October 1863;

        (B) the treaties of the Red Cross, or the treaties of Geneva, August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 12, 1949, to which the United States of America has given its adhesion; and

        (C) any other treaty, convention, or protocol similar in purpose to which the United States of America has given or may give its adhesion;

    (2) in carrying out the purposes described in paragraph (1) of this section, to perform all the duties devolved on a national society by each nation that has acceded to any of those treaties, conventions, or protocols;

    (3) to act in matters of voluntary relief and in accordance with the military authorities as a medium of communication between the people of the United States and the Armed Forces of the United States and to act in those matters between similar national societies of governments of other countries through the International Committee of the Red Cross and the Government, the people, and the Armed Forces of the United States;

    (4) to carry out a system of national and international relief in time of peace, and to apply that system in mitigating the suffering caused by pestilence, famine, fire, floods, and other great national calamities, and to devise and carry out measures for preventing those calamities; and

    (5) to conduct other activities consistent with the foregoing purposes.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1490][/us/stat/112/1490]; [Pub. L. 110–26, § 4][/us/pl/110/26/s4], May 11, 2007, [121 Stat. 105][/us/stat/121/105].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

300102  </td>

    <td> 

36:3.  </td>

    <td> 

Jan. 5, 1905, ch. 23, § 3, 33 Stat. 600; May 8, 1947, ch. 50, § 4, 61 Stat. 81; July 17, 1953, ch. 222, § 4(a), (b), 67 Stat. 179.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of 36:3 (“Third” par.) is omitted as executed.

    In clause (1)(B), the date “August 12, 1949” is added to include the reference to a subsequent treaty.

    In clause (2), the words “in carrying out the purposes described in clause (1) of this section” are substituted for “And for said purposes” for clarity.

    In clause (3), the words “International Committee of the Red Cross” are substituted for “Comité International de Secours” because the name has been changed.

    In clause (4), the word “continue” is omitted as included in “carry out”.

 __Amendments__ 

    2007—Par. (5). [Pub. L. 110–26][/us/pl/110/26] added par. (5).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300101.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1490]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1490
[/us/pl/110/26/s4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26%2Fs4
[/us/stat/121/105]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F105
[/us/pl/110/26]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26


