---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s300107

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300106.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300108.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300107)

## § 300107. Annual meeting

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    The annual meeting of the corporation is the annual meeting of delegates of the chapters.

    (b)  __Time of Meeting__  __.—__ 

    The annual meeting shall be held as determined by the board of governors.

    (c)  __Place of Meeting__  __.—__ 

    The board of governors is authorized to determine that the annual meeting shall not be held at any place, but may instead be held solely by means of remote communication subject to such procedures as are provided in the bylaws.

    (d) __Voting.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        In matters requiring a vote at the annual meeting, each chapter is entitled to at least 1 vote, and voting on all matters may be conducted by mail, telephone, telegram, cablegram, electronic mail, or any other means of electronic or telephone transmission, provided that the person voting shall state, or submit information from which it can be determined, that the method of voting chosen was authorized by such person.

        (2) __Establishment of number of votes.—__ 

            (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

            The board of governors shall determine on an equitable basis the number of votes that each chapter is entitled to cast, taking into consideration the size of the membership of the chapters, the populations served by the chapters, and such other factors as may be determined by the board.

            (B)  __Periodic review__  __.—__ 

            The board of governors shall review the allocation of votes at least every 5 years.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1493][/us/stat/112/1493]; [Pub. L. 110–26, § 8][/us/pl/110/26/s8], May 11, 2007, [121 Stat. 108][/us/stat/121/108].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

300107  </td>

    <td> 

36:5(c) (6th par.).  </td>

    <td> 

Jan. 5, 1905, ch. 23, § 5(c) (6th par.), 33 Stat. 601; Dec. 10, 1912, ch. 1, § 1, 37 Stat. 647; Mar. 3, 1921, ch. 131, § 1, 41 Stat. 1354; May 8, 1947, ch. 50, § 6, 61 Stat. 83.)  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    The words “The board shall determine on an equitable basis the number of votes” are substituted for “shall be determined according to allocation by the Board of Governors, which shall be established on an equitable basis” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “the populations served” are substituted for “the populations in the territories served” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

 __Amendments__ 

    2007—[Pub. L. 110–26][/us/pl/110/26] reenacted section catchline without change and amended text generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The annual meeting of the corporation is the national convention of delegates of the chapters. The national convention shall be held annually on a date and at a place specified by the board of governors. In matters requiring a vote at the national convention, each chapter is entitled to at least one vote. The board shall determine on an equitable basis the number of votes that each chapter is entitled to cast, taking into consideration the size of the membership of the chapters and of the populations served by the chapters. The board shall review the allocation of votes at least every 5 years.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300106.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300108.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300107)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1493]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1493
[/us/pl/110/26/s8]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26%2Fs8
[/us/stat/121/108]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F108
[/us/pl/110/26]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26


