---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s300112

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300111.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300113.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300112)

## § 300112. Office of the Ombudsman

    (a) __Establishment.—__ 

    The corporation shall establish an Office of the Ombudsman with such duties and responsibilities as may be provided in the bylaws or a resolution of the board of governors.

    (b) __Report.—__ 

        (1) __In general.—__ 

        The Office of the Ombudsman shall submit annually to the appropriate Congressional committees a report concerning any trends and systemic matters that the Office of the Ombudsman has identified as confronting the corporation.

        (2) __Appropriate congressional committees.—__ 

        For purposes of paragraph (1), the appropriate Congressional committees are the following committees of Congress:

            (A) __Senate committees.—__ 

            The appropriate Congressional committees of the Senate are—

                (i) the Committee on Finance;

                (ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations;

                (iii) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions;

                (iv) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; and

                (v) the Committee on the Judiciary.

            (B) __House committees.—__ 

            The appropriate Congressional committees of the House of Representatives are—

                (i) the Committee on Energy and Commerce;

                (ii) the Committee on Foreign Affairs;

                (iii) the Committee on Homeland Security;

                (iv) the Committee on the Judiciary; and

                (v) the Committee on Ways and Means.

(Added [Pub. L. 110–26, § 11(a)][/us/pl/110/26/s11/a], May 11, 2007, [121 Stat. 110][/us/stat/121/110].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300111.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stIII/ch3001/m__us_usc_t36_s300113.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs300112)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/110/26/s11/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F26%2Fs11%2Fa
[/us/stat/121/110]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F110


