---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s100723

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s100722.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s100724.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100723)

## § 100723. Actions

    (a)  __Civil Action for Response Costs and Damages__  __.—__ 

    The Attorney General, on request of the Secretary after a finding by the Secretary of destruction, loss, or injury to a System unit resource or a finding that absent the undertaking of a response action, destruction, loss, or injury to a System unit resource would have occurred, may bring a civil action in United States district court against any person or instrumentality that may be liable under [section 100722 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s100722] for response costs and damages. The Secretary shall submit a request for the civil action to the Attorney General whenever a person may be liable or an instrumentality may be liable in rem for those costs and damages under [section 100722 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s100722].

    (b) __Response Actions and Assessment of Destruction, Loss, or Injury.—__ 

        (1)  __Actions to prevent or minimize destruction, loss, or injury__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall undertake all necessary actions to—

            (A) prevent or minimize the destruction, loss of, or injury to System unit resources; or

            (B) minimize the imminent risk of destruction, loss, or injury to System unit resources.

        (2)  __Assessment and monitoring__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall assess and monitor destruction, loss, or injury to System unit resources.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3107][/us/stat/128/3107].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100723  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 19jj–2  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 101–337, § 3, July 27, 1990, 104 Stat. 380.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the words “destruction, loss, or injury” are substituted for “damage” in subsection (a) and for “damages” in subsection (b) for consistency in the new chapter and to distinguish destruction, loss, or injury from damages recovered in a civil action.

    In subsection (a), the words “response action” are substituted for “response costs” the 1st time the words appear for clarity and consistency in the new chapter.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s100722.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s100724.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100723)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s100722]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100722
[/us/usc/t54/s100722]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100722
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3107]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3107


