---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s210102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2101/m__us_usc_t36_s210101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2101/m__us_usc_t36_s210103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs210102)

## § 210102. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1) to perpetuate the memory of Theodore Roosevelt for the benefit of the people of the United States and the world; and

    (2)

     to solicit, receive, hold, and maintain funds, and to apply the principal of the funds and the income from those funds to the following objects, among others:

        (A) the erection and maintenance of a suitable and adequate monumental memorial in the District of Columbia to the memory of Theodore Roosevelt;

        (B) the acquisition, development, and maintenance of a public park in memory of Theodore Roosevelt in Oyster Bay, New York;

        (C) the establishment and maintenance of an endowment fund to promote the development and application of the policies and ideals of Theodore Roosevelt for the benefit of the American people; and

        (D) the donation of real and personal property, including part or all of its endowment fund, to a public agency for the purpose of preserving in public ownership historically significant property associated with the life of Theodore Roosevelt.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1455][/us/stat/112/1455].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

210102  </td>

    <td> 

36:4703.  </td>

    <td> 

May 31, 1920, ch. 216, § 3, 41 Stat. 693; July 25, 1962, Pub. L. 87–547, § 6, 76 Stat. 217.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (2), before subclause (A), the words “among others” are substituted for “and to that end, but without restriction to the objects enumerated below” to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2101/m__us_usc_t36_s210101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2101/m__us_usc_t36_s210103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs210102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1455]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1455


