---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s305502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3055/m__us_usc_t54_s305501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3055/m__us_usc_t54_s305503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305502)

## § 305502. Cooperative agreement to operate museum

    To provide a national center to commemorate and encourage the building arts and to preserve and maintain a nationally significant building that exemplifies the great achievements of the building arts in the United States, the Secretary and the Administrator of General Services shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the Committee for the operation of a National Building Museum in the Federal building located in the block bounded by Fourth Street, Fifth Street, F Street, and G Street, Northwest in Washington, District of Columbia. The cooperative agreement shall include provisions that—

    (1) make the site available to the Committee without charge;

    (2) provide, subject to available appropriations, such maintenance, security, information, janitorial, and other services as may be necessary to ensure the preservation and operation of the site; and

    (3) prescribe reasonable terms and conditions by which the Committee can fulfill its responsibilities under this division.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3223][/us/stat/128/3223].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

305502  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470w–5(a) (1st sentence), (b)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 306(a) (1st sentence), (b), as added Pub. L. 96–515, title V, § 501, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 3002, 3003.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    The words “Administrator of General Services” are substituted for “Administrator of the General Services Administration” to use the correct title of the Administrator.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3055/m__us_usc_t54_s305501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3055/m__us_usc_t54_s305503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3223]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3223


