---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/s2171

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2170b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2172.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2171)

##### § 2171. Defense Production Act Committee

    (a) __Committee established__ 

        There is established the Defense Production Act Committee (in this section referred to as the “Committee”), which shall coordinate and plan for on  <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 So in original. The word “on” probably should not appear. </sup></sup>  the effective use of the priorities and allocations authorities under this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\] by the departments, agencies, and independent establishments of the Federal Government to which the President has delegated authority under this Act.

    (b) __Membership__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The members of the Committee shall be—

            (A) the head of each Federal agency to which the President has delegated authority under this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\]; and

            (B) the Chairperson of the Council of Economic Advisors.

        (2) The Chairperson of the Committee shall be the head of the agency to which the President has delegated primary responsibility for government-wide coordination of the authorities in this Act.

    (c) __Coordination of Committee activities__ 

    The Chairperson shall appoint one person to coordinate all of the activities of the Committee, and such person shall—

        (1) be a full-time employee of the Federal Government;

        (2) report to the Chairperson; and

        (3) carry out such activities relating to the Committee as the Chairperson may determine appropriate.

    (d) __Report__ 

    The Committee shall issue a report each year by March 31 to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report signed by the Chairperson that contains—

        (1) a description of the contingency planning by each department, agency, or independent establishment of the Federal Government to which the President has delegated authority under this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\] for events that might require the use of the priorities and allocations authorities;

        (2) recommendations for the effective use of the priorities and allocations authorities in this Act in a manner consistent with the statement of policy under section 2(b) \[section 2062(b) of this Appendix\];

        (3) recommendations for legislation actions, as appropriate, to support the effective use of the priorities and allocations authorities in this Act;

        (4) recommendations for improving information sharing between departments, agencies, and independent establishments of the Federal Government relating to the use of the priorities and allocations authorities in this Act;

        (5) up-to-date copies of the rules described under section 101(d)(1) \[section 2071(d)(1) of this Appendix\]; and

        (6) short attestations signed by each member of the Committee stating their concurrence in the report.

    (e) __Federal Advisory Committee Act__ 

        The provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Committee.

([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932][/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932], title VII, § 722, as added [Pub. L. 102–558, title I, § 135][/us/pl/102/558/s135], Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4212][/us/stat/106/4212]; amended [Pub. L. 109–295, title VI, § 612(c)][/us/pl/109/295/s612/c], Oct. 4, 2006, [120 Stat. 1410][/us/stat/120/1410]; [Pub. L. 111–67, § 11][/us/pl/111/67/s11], Sept. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2019][/us/stat/123/2019]; [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2][/us/pl/113/172/s2], Sept. 26, 2014, [128 Stat. 1896][/us/stat/128/1896].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Federal Advisory Committee Act, referred to in subsec. (e), is [Pub. L. 92–463][/us/pl/92/463], Oct. 6, 1972, [86 Stat. 770][/us/stat/86/770], which is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

 __Amendments__ 

    2014—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(1)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/1], substituted “coordinate and plan for” for “advise the President” and “the priorities and allocations authorities” for “the authority”.

    Subsec. (b)(2). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(2)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/2], amended par. (2) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows: “The President shall designate 1 member of the Committee as the Chairperson of the Committee.”

    Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(3)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/3], amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, text read as follows:

    “(1) In general.—The President shall appoint an Executive Director of the Defense Production Act Committee (in this section referred to as the ‘Executive Director’), who shall—

    “(A) be responsible to the Chairperson of the Committee; and

    “(B) carry out such activities relating to the Committee as the Chairperson may determine.

    “(2) Appointment.—The appointment by the President shall not be subject to the advice and consent of the Senate.

    “(3) Compensation.—For pay periods beginning on or after the date on which each Chairperson is appointed, funds for the pay of the Executive Director shall be paid from appropriations to the salaries and expenses account of the department or agency of the Chairperson of the Committee. The Executive Director shall be compensated at a rate of pay equivalent to that of a Deputy Assistant Secretary (or a comparable position) of the Federal agency of the Chairperson of the Committee.”

    Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(A)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/A], (B), in introductory provisions, substituted “The Committee shall issue a report each year by March 31” for “Not later than the end of the first quarter of each calendar year, the Committee shall submit” and “the Chairperson” for “each member of the Committee”.

    Subsec. (d)(1). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(C)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/C], substituted “a description of the contingency planning by” for “a review of the authority under this Act of” and inserted before semicolon at end “for events that might require the use of the priorities and allocations authorities”.

    Subsec. (d)(2). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(D)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/D], substituted “priorities and allocations authorities in this Act” for “authority described in paragraph (1)”.

    Subsec. (d)(3). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(E)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/E], amended par. (3) generally. Prior to amendment, par. (3) read as follows: “recommendations for legislation, regulations, executive orders, or other action by the Federal Government necessary to improve the use of the authority described in paragraph (1); and”.

    Subsec. (d)(4). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(F)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/F], substituted “the use of the priorities and allocations authorities in this Act;” for “all aspects of the authority described in paragraph (1).”

    Subsec. (d)(5), (6). [Pub. L. 113–172, § 2(4)(G)][/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/G], added pars. (5) and (6).

    2009—[Pub. L. 111–67][/us/pl/111/67] amended section generally. Prior to amendment, section related to defense industrial base information system with regard to its establishment, sources of information, strategic plan for developing comprehensive system, capabilities, and required report on subcontractor and supplier base.

 __Effective Date__ 

    Section deemed to have become effective Mar. 1, 1992, see [section 304 of Pub. L. 102–558][/us/pl/102/558/s304], set out as an Effective Date of 1992 Amendment note under section 2062 of this Appendix.

 __Termination Date__ 

    Termination of section, see section 2166(a) of this Appendix.

 __Designating the Chairperson of the Defense Production Act Committee__ 

    Memorandum of President of the United States, May 19, 2010, 75 F.R. 32087, provided:

    Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense \[and\] the Secretary of Homeland Security

    Pursuant to the authority vested in me by section 722(b)(2) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended ([section 11 of Public Law 111–67][/us/pl/111/67/s11]; 50 App. U.S.C. 2171) (the “Act”), I hereby designate the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense as rotating Chairpersons of the Defense Production Act Committee (the “Committee”). The Chair shall rotate annually on April 1 of each year, with the Secretary of Homeland Security hereby designated to serve as Chairperson of the Committee for the remainder of this first term. The Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of Defense are directed to formalize responsibilities for funding and administratively supporting the Committee through interagency agreement.

    Furthermore, the Chairperson shall invite to each meeting of the Committee all Members of the Committee as defined in section 722(b) of the Act, and shall ensure that the reporting requirements of section 722(d) of the Act are fulfilled.

    The Secretary of Homeland Security is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

                              Barack Obama.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2170b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2172.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2171)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932
[/us/pl/102/558/s135]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F558%2Fs135
[/us/stat/106/4212]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F106%2F4212
[/us/pl/109/295/s612/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F109%2F295%2Fs612%2Fc
[/us/stat/120/1410]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F120%2F1410
[/us/pl/111/67/s11]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F67%2Fs11
[/us/stat/123/2019]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F123%2F2019
[/us/pl/113/172/s2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2
[/us/stat/128/1896]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F1896
[/us/pl/92/463]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F92%2F463
[/us/stat/86/770]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F86%2F770
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F1
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F2
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F3
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/A]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FA
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/C]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FC
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/D]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FD
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/E]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FE
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/F]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FF
[/us/pl/113/172/s2/4/G]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F172%2Fs2%2F4%2FG
[/us/pl/111/67]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F67
[/us/pl/102/558/s304]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F558%2Fs304
[/us/pl/111/67/s11]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F67%2Fs11


