---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/s2156

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2155.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2157.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2156)

##### § 2156. Jurisdiction of courts; injunctions; venue; process; effect of termination of provisions

    (a) Whenever in the judgment of the President any person has engaged or is about to engage in any acts or practices which constitute or will constitute a violation of any provision of this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\], he may make application to the appropriate court for an order enjoining such acts or practices, or for an order enforcing compliance with such provision, and upon a showing by the President that such person has engaged or is about to engage in any such acts or practices a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order, with or without such injunction or restraining order, shall be granted without bond.

    (b) The district courts of the United States and the United States courts of any Territory or other place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall have jurisdiction of violations of this Act \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\] or any rule, regulation, order, or subpena thereunder, and of all civil actions under this Act to enforce any liability or duty created by, or to enjoin any violation of, this Act or any rule, regulation, order, or subpena thereunder. Any criminal proceeding on account of any such violation may be brought in any district in which any act, failure to act, or transaction constituting the violation occurred. Any such civil action may be brought in any such district or in the district in which the defendant resides or transacts business. Process in such cases, criminal or civil, may be served in any district wherein the defendant resides or transacts business or wherever the defendant may be found; the subpena for witnesses who are required to attend a court in any district in such case may run into any other district. The termination of the authority granted in any title or section of this Act, or of any rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder, shall not operate to defeat any suit, action, or prosecution, whether theretofore or thereafter commenced, with respect to any right, liability, or offense incurred or committed prior to the termination date of such title or of such rule, regulation, or order. No costs shall be assessed against the United States in any proceeding under this Act. All litigation arising under this Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be under the supervision and control of the Attorney General.

([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932][/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932], title VII, § 706, [64 Stat. 817][/us/stat/64/817]; [July 31, 1951, ch. 275][/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275], title I, § 109(e), [65 Stat. 139][/us/stat/65/139].)

 __Amendments__ 

    1951—Subsec. (a). Act July 31, 1951, broadened relief a court may grant when Government seeks to enjoin violations.

 __Termination Date__ 

    Termination of section, see section 2166(a) of this Appendix.

 __Delegation of Functions__ 

    Functions of President under act Sept. 8, 1950 \[section 2061 et seq. of this Appendix\], relating to production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, delegated to Secretary of Energy, see section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 11790, June 25, 1974, 39 F.R. 23185, set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s761], Commerce and Trade.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2155.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tVII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2157.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2156)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932
[/us/stat/64/817]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F64%2F817
[/us/act/1951-07-31/ch275]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1951-07-31%2Fch275
[/us/stat/65/139]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F65%2F139
[/us/usc/t15/s761]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs761


