---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1948-07-03/ch826/s2017

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1948-07-03/ch826/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1948-07-03_ch826_s2016.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1948-07-03/ch826/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1948-07-03_ch826_s2017a.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1948-07-03%2Fch826%2Fs2017)

##### § 2017. Definitions

    As used in this title \[sections 2017 to 2017p of this Appendix\] the term or terms—

    (a) “Albania”, “Austria”, “Czechoslovakia”, “the Free Territory of Danzig”, “Estonia”, “Germany”, “Greece”, “Latvia”, “Lithuania”, “Poland”, and “Yugoslavia”, when used in their respective geographical senses, mean the territorial limits of each such country or free territory, as the case may be, in continental Europe as such limits existed on December 1, 1937.

    (b) “Commission” means the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States established pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1954 ([68 Stat. 1279][/us/stat/68/1279]).

    (c) “National of the United States” means (1) a natural person who is a citizen of the United States, (2) a natural person who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States, and (3) a corporation, partnership, unincorporated body, or other entity, organized under the laws of the United States, or of any State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, or any possession of the United States and in which more than 50 per centum of the outstanding capital stock or other proprietary or similar interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by persons referred to in clauses (1) and (2) of this subsection. It does not include aliens.

    (d) “Property” means real property and such items of tangible personalty as can be identified and evaluated.

([July 3, 1948, ch. 826][/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826], title II, § 201, as added [Pub. L. 87–846, title I, § 103][/us/pl/87/846/s103], Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1107][/us/stat/76/1107].)

 __References in Text__ 

    Reorganization Plan Numbered 1 of 1954 ([68 Stat. 1279][/us/stat/68/1279]), referred to in subsec. (b), is set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and Employees.

 __Separability__ 

[Pub. L. 87–846, title III, § 301][/us/pl/87/846/s301], Oct. 22, 1962, [76 Stat. 1117][/us/stat/76/1117], provided that: 

> “If any provision of this Act \[enacting sections 41, 42, and 2017 to 2017p of this Appendix, amending sections 9, 32, 33, 39, 2001, 2003 to 2010, 2012, and 2013 to 2016 of this Appendix, and exacting provisions set out as notes under this section and section 2001 of this Appendix\], or the application thereof to any person or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Act, or the application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected.”

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    For provisions transferring Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States to Department of Justice, as a separate agency, see section 1622a et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1948-07-03/ch826/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1948-07-03_ch826_s2016.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1948-07-03/ch826/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1948-07-03_ch826_s2017a.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1948-07-03%2Fch826%2Fs2017)

----------
----------

[/us/stat/68/1279]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F68%2F1279
[/us/act/1948-07-03/ch826]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1948-07-03%2Fch826
[/us/pl/87/846/s103]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F846%2Fs103
[/us/stat/76/1107]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F76%2F1107
[/us/stat/68/1279]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F68%2F1279
[/us/pl/87/846/s301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F846%2Fs301
[/us/stat/76/1117]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F76%2F1117


