---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s312503

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312503)

## § 312503. Survey and recovery by Secretary

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary, on notification, in writing, by any Federal or State agency or appropriate historical or archeological authority that scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data are being or may be irrevocably lost or destroyed by any Federal or federally assisted or licensed project, activity, or program, shall, if the Secretary determines that the data are significant and are being or may be irrevocably lost or destroyed and after reasonable notice to the agency responsible for funding or licensing the project, activity, or program—

        (1) conduct or cause to be conducted a survey and other investigation of the areas that are or may be affected; and

        (2) recover and preserve the data (including analysis and publication) that, in the opinion of the Secretary, are not being, but should be, recovered and preserved in the public interest.

    (b)  __When Survey or Recovery Not Required__  __.—__ 

    No survey or recovery work shall be required pursuant to this section that, in the determination of the head of the responsible agency, would impede Federal or federally assisted or licensed projects or activities undertaken in connection with any emergency, including projects or activities undertaken in anticipation of, or as a result of, a natural disaster.

    (c)  __Initiation of Survey__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall initiate the survey or recovery effort within—

        (1) 60 days after notification pursuant to subsection (a); or

        (2) such time as may be agreed on with the head of the agency responsible for funding or licensing the project, activity, or program in all other cases.

    (d)  __Compensation by Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall, unless otherwise agreed to in writing, compensate any person, association, or public entity damaged as a result of delays in construction or as a result of the temporary loss of the use of private or nonfederally owned land.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3255][/us/stat/128/3255].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312503  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469a–2  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 86–523, § 4, as added Pub. L. 93–291, § 1(3), May 24, 1974, 88 Stat. 174.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312503)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3255]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3255


