---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s312502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312502)

## § 312502. Threat of irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data by Federal construction projects

    (a) __Activity of Federal Agency.—__ 

        (1)  __Notification of secretary__  __.—__ 

        When any Federal agency finds, or is notified, in writing, by an appropriate historical or archeological authority, that its activities in connection with any Federal construction project or federally licensed project, activity, or program may cause irreparable loss or destruction of significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data, the agency shall notify the Secretary, in writing, and shall provide the Secretary with appropriate information concerning the project, program, or activity.

        (2)  __Recovery, protection, and preservation of data__  __.—__ 

        The agency—

            (A) may request the Secretary to undertake the recovery, protection, and preservation of the data (including preliminary survey, or other investigation as needed, and analysis and publication of the reports resulting from the investigation); or

            (B) may, with funds appropriated for the project, program, or activity, undertake those activities.

        (3)  __Availability of reports__  __.—__ 

        Copies of reports of any investigations made pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the Secretary, who shall make them available to the public for inspection and review.

    (b) __Activity of Private Person, Association, or Public Entity.—__ 

        (1)  __Recovery by secretary__  __.—__ 

        When any Federal agency provides financial assistance by loan, grant, or otherwise to any private person, association, or public entity, the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that significant scientific, prehistorical, historical, or archeological data might be irrevocably lost or destroyed, may, with funds appropriated expressly for this purpose—

            (A) conduct, with the consent of all persons, associations, or public entities having a legal interest in the property, a survey of the affected site; and

            (B) undertake the recovery, protection, and preservation of the data (including analysis and publication).

        (2)  __Compensation__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall, unless otherwise agreed to in writing, compensate any person, association, or public entity damaged as a result of delays in construction or as a result of the temporary loss of the use of private or any nonfederally owned land.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3254][/us/stat/128/3254].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312502  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469a–1.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 86–523, § 3, as added Pub. L. 93–291, § 1(3), May 24, 1974, 88 Stat. 174.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3125/m__us_usc_t54_s312503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3254]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3254


