---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220528

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220527.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220529.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220528)

## § 220528. Applications to replace an incumbent national governing body

    (a)  __General__  __.—__ 

    An amateur sports organization may seek to replace an incumbent as the national governing body for a particular sport by filing a written application for recognition with the corporation.

    (b)  __Establishment of Procedures__  __.—__ 

    The corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and disposition of applications under this section. If 2 or more organizations file applications for the same sport, the applications shall be considered in a single proceeding.

    (c)  __Filing Procedures__  __.—__ 

        (1)

         An application under this section must be filed within one year after the final day of—

            (A) any Olympic Games, for a sport in which competition is held in the Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games, or in both the Olympic and Pan-American Games; or

            (B) any Pan-American Games, for a sport in which competition is held in the Pan-American Games but not in the Olympic Games.

        (2) The application shall be filed with the corporation by certified mail, and a copy of the application shall be served on the national governing body and with any other organization that has filed an application. The corporation shall inform the applicant that its application has been received.

    (d)  __Hearings__  __.—__ 

    Within 180 days after receipt of an application filed under this section, the corporation shall conduct a formal hearing open to the public to determine the merits of the application. The corporation shall publish notice of the time and place of the hearing in a regular issue of its principal publication at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, before the date of the hearing. The corporation also shall send written notice, including a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport. In the hearing, the applicant and the national governing body shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present evidence supporting their positions.

    (e)  __Standards for Granting Applications__  __.—__ 

    In the hearing, the applicant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that—

        (1) it meets the criteria for recognition as a national governing body under [section 220522 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220522]; and

        (2)

            (A) the national governing body does not meet the criteria of section 220522, 220524, or 220525 of this title; or

            (B) the applicant more adequately meets the criteria of [section 220522 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220522], is capable of more adequately meeting the criteria of sections 220524 and 220525 of this title, and provides or is capable of providing a more effective national program of competition than the national governing body in the sport for which it seeks recognition.

    (f)  __Disposition of Applications__  __.—__ 

    Within 30 days after the close of the hearing required by this section, the corporation shall—

        (1) uphold the right of the national governing body to continue as the national governing body for its sport;

        (2) revoke the recognition of the national governing body and declare a vacancy in the national governing body for that sport;

        (3) revoke the recognition of the national governing body and recognize the applicant as the national governing body; or

        (4) place the national governing body on probation for a period not exceeding 180 days, pending the compliance of the national governing body, if the national governing body would have retained recognition except for a minor deficiency in one of the requirements of section 220522, 220524, or 220525 of this title and notify such national governing body of such probation and of the actions needed to comply with such requirements.

    (g)  __Revocation of Recognition After Probation__  __.—__ 

    If the national governing body does not comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title within the probationary period prescribed under subsection (f)(4) of this section, the corporation shall revoke the recognition of the national governing body and either—

        (1) recognize the applicant as the national governing body; or

        (2) declare a vacancy in the national governing body for that sport.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1476][/us/stat/112/1476]; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142(p)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/p], [112 Stat. 2681–609][/us/stat/112/2681-609].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(1) (1st sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, § 205(b)(1)–(4), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3056.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(1) (last sentence), (2) (2d sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(c)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(1) (2d sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(c)(2)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(2) (1st, 3d, last sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(d)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(3) (1st–3d sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(e)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(3) (last sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(f)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(4) (1st sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220528(g)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(b)(4) (last sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (c)(2), the word “also” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (d), the words “course of such” and “respective” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (e), before clause (1), the words “amateur sports organization” are omitted as unnecessary. In clause (2)(B), the words “the applicant” are substituted for “it” for clarity.

    In subsection (f), before clause (1), the word “after” is substituted for “of” for consistency in the revised title. In clause (4), the words “decide to” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “for a period not exceeding” are substituted for “of not to exceed” for clarity.

    In subsection (g), before clause (1), the words “with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title” are added, and the words “probationary period prescribed under subsection (f)(4) of this section” are substituted for “prescribed time period”, for clarity.

 __Amendments__ 

    1998—Subsec. (c)(1)(A). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(p)(1)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/1], substituted “Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games, or in both” for “Olympic Games or both”.

    Subsec. (c)(2). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(p)(2)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/2], (3), substituted “certified” for “registered” and substituted “body and with any other organization that has filed an application.” for “body.”

    Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(p)(4)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/4], (5), inserted “open to the public” after “formal hearing” and inserted after second sentence “The corporation also shall send written notice, including a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport.”

    Subsec. (f)(4). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142(p)(6)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/6], substituted “title and notify such national governing body of such probation and of the actions needed to comply with such requirements.” for “title.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220527.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220529.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220528)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t36/s220522]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220522
[/us/usc/t36/s220522]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220522
[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1476]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1476
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/p]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fp
[/us/stat/112/2681-609]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F2681-609
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fp%2F1
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fp%2F2
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fp%2F4
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/p/6]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fp%2F6


