---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220523

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220522.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220524.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220523)

## § 220523. Authority of national governing bodies

    (a)  __Authority__  __.—__ 

    For the sport that it governs, a national governing body may—

        (1) represent the United States in the appropriate international sports federation;

        (2) establish national goals and encourage the attainment of those goals;

        (3) serve as the coordinating body for amateur athletic activity in the United States;

        (4) exercise jurisdiction over international amateur athletic activities and sanction international amateur athletic competition held in the United States and sanction the sponsorship of international amateur athletic competition held outside the United States;

        (5) conduct amateur athletic competition, including national championships, and international amateur athletic competition in the United States, and establish procedures for determining eligibility standards for participation in competition, except for amateur athletic competition specified in [section 220526 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220526];

        (6) recommend to the corporation individuals and teams to represent the United States in the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, and the Pan-American Games; and

        (7) designate individuals and teams to represent the United States in international amateur athletic competition (other than the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, and the Pan-American Games) and certify, in accordance with applicable international rules, the amateur eligibility of those individuals and teams.

    (b)  __Replacement of National Governing Body Pursuant to Arbitration__  __.—__ 

    A national governing body may not exercise any authority under subsection (a) of this section for a particular sport after another amateur sports organization has been declared (in accordance with binding arbitration proceedings prescribed by the organic documents of the corporation) entitled to replace that national governing body as the member of the corporation for that sport.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1473][/us/stat/112/1473]; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142(n)][/us/pl/105/277/s142/n], [112 Stat. 2681–608][/us/stat/112/2681-608].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220523(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:393.  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, § 203, as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3054.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220523(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:393 note.  </td>

    <td> 

July 8, 1980, Pub. L. 96–304, title I (last sentence related to limitation on exercise of authority in par. under heading “Salaries and Expenses”), 94 Stat. 898.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b), the words “national governing body” are omitted (the first time they appear) to eliminate unnecessary words. The reference to “subsection (a) of this section” is substituted for “[section 203 of Public Law 95–606][/us/pl/95/606/s203] as hereby amended” because of the restatement. The word “corporation” is substituted for “Committee” because of the definition of “corporation” in [section 220501 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220501].

 __Amendments__ 

    1998—Subsec. (a)(6), (7). [Pub. L. 105–277][/us/pl/105/277], which directed substitution of “Games, the Paralympic Games, and” for “Games and” in pars. (6) and (7) of this section, was executed by making the substitution in pars. (6) and (7) of subsec. (a) to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220522.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220524.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220523)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t36/s220526]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220526
[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1473]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1473
[/us/pl/105/277/s142/n]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142%2Fn
[/us/stat/112/2681-608]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F2681-608
[/us/pl/95/606/s203]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F95%2F606%2Fs203
[/us/usc/t36/s220501]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220501
[/us/pl/105/277]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277


