---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220521

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_stII_ptB_ch2205_schII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220522.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220521)

## § 220521. Recognition of amateur sports organizations as national governing bodies

    (a)  __General Authority__  __.—__ 

    For any sport which is included on the program of the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games, or the Pan-American Games, the corporation is authorized to recognize as a national governing body (in the case of a sport on the program of the Olympic Games or Pan-American Games) or as a paralympic sports organization (in the case of a sport on the program of the Paralympic Games for which a national governing body has not been designated under section 220522(b)) an amateur sports organization which files an application and is eligible for such recognition in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of section 220522. The corporation may recognize only one national governing body for each sport for which an application is made and approved, except as provided in section 220522(b) with respect to a paralympic sports organization.

    (b)  __Public Hearing__  __.—__ 

    Before recognizing an organization as a national governing body, the corporation shall hold at least 2 public hearings on the application. The corporation shall publish notice of the time, place, and nature of the hearings. Publication shall be made in a regular issue of the corporation’s principal publication at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, before the date of the hearings. The corporation shall send written notice, which shall include a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of any such public hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport.

    (c)  __Recommendation to International Sports Federation__  __.—__ 

    Within 61 days after recognizing an organization as a national governing body, the corporation shall recommend and support in any appropriate manner the national governing body to the appropriate international sports federation as the representative of the United States for that sport.

    (d)  __Review of Recognition__  __.—__ 

    The corporation may review all matters related to the continued recognition of an organization as a national governing body and may take action it considers appropriate, including placing conditions on the continued recognition.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1471][/us/stat/112/1471]; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142][/us/pl/105/277/s142](l), [112 Stat. 2681–607][/us/stat/112/2681-607]; [Pub. L. 109–284, § 5(20)][/us/pl/109/284/s5/20], Sept. 27, 2006, [120 Stat. 1212][/us/stat/120/1212].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220521(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:391(a) (1st, 2d sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, §§ 201(a), (d), 204, 205(b)(5), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3050, 3052, 3055, 3057.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220521(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:391(a) (3d–last sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220521(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:391(d).

36:395(b)(5).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220521(d)  </td>

    <td> 

36:394.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b), the words “under the authority granted under this subchapter and in accordance with the procedures and requirements of this section” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “public hearing” are substituted for “hearing open to the public”, and the words “for such recognition” are omitted, to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (c), the words “in accordance with subsection (a) of this section” in 36:391(d) and “in accordance with this subsection” in 36:395(b)(5) are omitted as unnecessary.

 __Amendments__ 

    2006—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 109–284][/us/pl/109/284] substituted “subsection” for “subsections”.

    1998—Subsec. (a). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142][/us/pl/105/277/s142](l)(1), inserted first sentence and struck out former first sentence which read as follows: “For any sport that is included on the program of the Olympic Games or the Pan-American Games, the corporation may recognize as a national governing body an amateur sports organization that files an application and is eligible under [section 220522 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220522].”

    [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142][/us/pl/105/277/s142](l)(2), substituted “approved, except as provided in section 220522(b) with respect to a paralympic sports organization.” for “approved.”

    Subsec. (b). [Pub. L. 105–277, § 142][/us/pl/105/277/s142](l)(3)–(5), substituted “hold at least 2 public hearings” for “hold a public hearing”, substituted “hearings.” for “hearing.” in two places, and inserted at end “The corporation shall send written notice, which shall include a copy of the application, at least 30 days prior to the date of any such public hearing to all amateur sports organizations known to the corporation in that sport.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_stII_ptB_ch2205_schII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220522.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220521)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1471]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1471
[/us/pl/105/277/s142]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142
[/us/stat/112/2681-607]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F2681-607
[/us/pl/109/284/s5/20]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F109%2F284%2Fs5%2F20
[/us/stat/120/1212]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F120%2F1212
[/us/pl/109/284]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F109%2F284
[/us/pl/105/277/s142]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142
[/us/usc/t36/s220522]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220522
[/us/pl/105/277/s142]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142
[/us/pl/105/277/s142]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142


