---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220527

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220526.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220528.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220527)

## § 220527. Complaints against national governing bodies

    (a)  __General__  __.—__ 

        (1) An amateur sports organization or person that belongs to or is eligible to belong to a national governing body may seek to compel the national governing body to comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title by filing a written complaint with the corporation. A copy of the complaint shall be served on the national governing body.

        (2) The corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and disposition of complaints under this section.

    (b)  __Exhaustion of Remedies__  __.—__ 

        (1) An organization or person may file a complaint under subsection (a) of this section only after exhausting all available remedies within the national governing body for correcting deficiencies, unless it can be shown by clear and convincing evidence that those remedies would have resulted in unnecessary delay.

        (2) Within 30 days after a complaint is filed, the corporation shall decide whether the organization or person has exhausted all available remedies as required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. If the corporation determines that the remedies have not been exhausted, it may direct that the remedies be pursued before the corporation considers the complaint further.

    (c)  __Hearings__  __.—__ 

    If the corporation decides that all available remedies have been exhausted as required by subsection (b)(1) of this section, it shall hold a hearing, within 90 days after the complaint is filed, to receive testimony to decide whether the national governing body is complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title.

    (d)  __Disposition of Complaint__  __.—__ 

        (1) If the corporation decides, as a result of the hearing, that the national governing body is complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title, it shall so notify the complainant and the national governing body.

        (2)

         If the corporation decides, as a result of the hearing, that the national governing body is not complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title, it shall—

            (A) place the national governing body on probation for a specified period of time, not to exceed 180 days, which the corporation considers necessary to enable the national governing body to comply with those sections; or

            (B) revoke the recognition of the national governing body.

        (3) If the corporation places a national governing body on probation under paragraph (2) of this subsection, it may extend the probationary period if the national governing body has proven by clear and convincing evidence that, through no fault of its own, it needs additional time to comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title. If, at the end of the period allowed by the corporation, the national governing body has not complied with those sections, the corporation shall revoke the recognition of the national governing body.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1476][/us/stat/112/1476].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(a)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(1) (1st, last sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, § 205(a), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3055.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(a)(2)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(1) (3d sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(b)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(1) (2d sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(b)(2)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(2).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(3)(A).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220527(d)  </td>

    <td> 

36:395(a)(3)(B)–(D).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b)(2), the words “or person” are added for clarity and consistency in the section. The words “all available remedies” are substituted for “its remedies” for consistency with subsection (b)(1) of this section. The words “within the applicable national governing body” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220526.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220528.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220527)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1476]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1476


