---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220524

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220523.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220525.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220524)

## § 220524. General duties of national governing bodies

For the sport that it governs, a national governing body shall—

    (1) develop interest and participation throughout the United States and be responsible to the persons and amateur sports organizations it represents;

    (2) minimize, through coordination with other amateur sports organizations, conflicts in the scheduling of all practices and competitions;

    (3) keep amateur athletes informed of policy matters and reasonably reflect the views of the athletes in its policy decisions;

    (4) disseminate and distribute to amateur athletes, coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials in a timely manner the applicable rules and any changes to such rules of the national governing body, the corporation, the appropriate international sports federation, the International Olympic Committee, the International Paralympic Committee, and the Pan-American Sports Organization;

    (5) allow an amateur athlete to compete in any international amateur athletic competition conducted by any amateur sports organization or person, unless the national governing body establishes that its denial is based on evidence that the organization or person conducting the competition does not meet the requirements stated in [section 220525 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s220525];

    (6) provide equitable support and encouragement for participation by women where separate programs for male and female athletes are conducted on a national basis;

    (7) encourage and support amateur athletic sports programs for individuals with disabilities and the participation of individuals with disabilities in amateur athletic activity, including, where feasible, the expansion of opportunities for meaningful participation by individuals with disabilities in programs of athletic competition for able-bodied individuals;

    (8) provide and coordinate technical information on physical training, equipment design, coaching, and performance analysis; and

    (9) encourage and support research, development, and dissemination of information in the areas of sports medicine and sports safety.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1474][/us/stat/112/1474]; [Pub. L. 105–277, div. C, title I, § 142][/us/pl/105/277/s142](o), [112 Stat. 2681–608][/us/stat/112/2681-608].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220524  </td>

    <td> 

36:392(a)(1)–(3), (5)–(9).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 21, 1950, ch. 975, title II, § 202(a)(1)–(3), (5)–(9), as added Nov. 8, 1978, Pub. L. 95–606, § 2, 92 Stat. 3052.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (4), the word “by” is substituted for “under its auspices or that of . . . other” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “the national governing body” are substituted for “it” for clarity.

 __Amendments__ 

    1998—Pars. (4) to (9). [Pub. L. 105–277][/us/pl/105/277], added par. (4) and redesignated former pars. (4) to (8) as (5) to (9), respectively.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220523.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2205/schII/m__us_usc_t36_s220525.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220524)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t36/s220525]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220525
[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1474]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1474
[/us/pl/105/277/s142]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277%2Fs142
[/us/stat/112/2681-608]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F2681-608
[/us/pl/105/277]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F277


