---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s320301

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dC/ch3203/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dC_ch3203.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dC/ch3203/m__us_usc_t54_s320302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs320301)

## § 320301. National monuments

    (a)  __Presidential Declaration__  __.—__ 

    The President may, in the President’s discretion, declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific interest that are situated on land owned or controlled by the Federal Government to be national monuments.

    (b)  __Reservation of Land__  __.—__ 

    The President may reserve parcels of land as a part of the national monuments. The limits of the parcels shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects to be protected.

    (c)  __Relinquishment to Federal Government__  __.—__ 

    When an object is situated on a parcel covered by a bona fide unperfected claim or held in private ownership, the parcel, or so much of the parcel as may be necessary for the proper care and management of the object, may be relinquished to the Federal Government and the Secretary may accept the relinquishment of the parcel on behalf of the Federal Government.

    (d)  __Limitation on Extension or Establishment of National Monuments in Wyoming__  __.—__ 

    No extension or establishment of national monuments in Wyoming may be undertaken except by express authorization of Congress.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3259][/us/stat/128/3259].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

320301(a) through (c)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 431  </td>

    <td> 

June 8, 1906, ch. 3060, § 2, 34 Stat. 225.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

320301(d)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 431a  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 14, 1950, ch. 950, § 1 (proviso relating to national monuments), 64 Stat. 849.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (c), the word “parcel” is substituted for “tract” for consistency in this section.

    In subsection (d), the word “further” is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dC/ch3203/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dC_ch3203.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dC/ch3203/m__us_usc_t54_s320302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs320301)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3259]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3259


