---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s1395w–116

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt2/m__us_usc_t42_s1395w–115.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt3/m__us_usc_t42_ch7_schXVIII_ptD_spt3.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93116)

## § 1395w–116. Medicare Prescription Drug Account in the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund

    (a) __Establishment and operation of Account__ 

        (1) __Establishment__ 

            There is created within the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund established by [section 1395t of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395t] an account to be known as the “Medicare Prescription Drug Account” (in this section referred to as the “Account”).

        (2) __Funding__ 

            The Account shall consist of such gifts and bequests as may be made as provided in [section 401(i)(1) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s401/i/1], accrued interest on balances in the Account, and such amounts as may be deposited in, or appropriated to, such Account as provided in this part.

        (3) __Separate from rest of Trust Fund__ 

            Funds provided under this part to the Account shall be kept separate from all other funds within the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, but shall be invested, and such investments redeemed, in the same manner as all other funds and investments within such Trust Fund.

    (b) __Payments from Account__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

        The Managing Trustee shall pay from time to time from the Account such amounts as the Secretary certifies are necessary to make payments to operate the program under this part, including—

            (A) payments under [section 1395w–114 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–114] (relating to low-income subsidy payments);

            (B) payments under [section 1395w–115 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–115] (relating to subsidy payments and payments for fallback plans);

            (C) payments to sponsors of qualified retiree prescription drug plans under [section 1395w–132(a) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–132/a]; and

            (D) payments with respect to administrative expenses under this part in accordance with [section 401(g) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s401/g].

        (2) __Transfers to Medicaid account for increased administrative costs__ 

            The Managing Trustee shall transfer from time to time from the Account to the Grants to States for Medicaid account amounts the Secretary certifies are attributable to increases in payment resulting from the application of [section 1396u–5(b) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1396u–5/b].

        (3) __Payments of premiums withheld__ 

            The Managing Trustee shall make payment to the PDP sponsor or MA organization involved of the premiums (and the portion of late enrollment penalties) that are collected in the manner described in [section 1395w–24(d)(2)(A) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–24/d/2/A] and that are payable under a prescription drug plan or MA–PD plan offered by such sponsor or organization.

        (4) __Treatment in relation to part B premium__ 

            Amounts payable from the Account shall not be taken into account in computing actuarial rates or premium amounts under [section 1395r of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395r].

    (c) __Deposits into Account__ 

        (1) __Low-income transfer__ 

            Amounts paid under [section 1396u–5(c) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1396u–5/c] (and any amounts collected or offset under paragraph (1)(C) of such section) are deposited into the Account.

        (2) __Amounts withheld__ 

            Pursuant to sections 1395w–113(c) and 1395w–24(d) of this title (as applied under this part), amounts that are withheld (and allocated) to the Account are deposited into the Account.

        (3) __Appropriations to cover Government contributions__ 

            There are authorized to be appropriated from time to time, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Account, an amount equivalent to the amount of payments made from the Account under subsection (b) of this section plus such amounts as the Managing Trustee certifies is necessary to maintain an appropriate contingency margin, reduced by the amounts deposited under paragraph (1) or subsection (a)(2) of this section.

        (4) __Initial funding and reserve__ 

            In order to assure prompt payment of benefits provided under this part and the administrative expenses thereunder during the early months of the program established by this part and to provide an initial contingency reserve, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Account, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such amount as the Secretary certifies are required, but not to exceed 10 percent of the estimated total expenditures from such Account in 2006.

        (5) __Transfer of any remaining balance from Transitional Assistance Account__ 

            Any balance in the Transitional Assistance Account that is transferred under [section 1395w–141(k)(5) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s1395w–141/k/5] shall be deposited into the Account.

([Aug. 14, 1935, ch. 531][/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531], title XVIII, § 1860D–16, as added [Pub. L. 108–173, title I][/us/pl/108/173/tI], § 101(a)(2), Dec. 8, 2003, [117 Stat. 2120][/us/stat/117/2120].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt2/m__us_usc_t42_s1395w–115.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch7/schXVIII/ptD/spt3/m__us_usc_t42_ch7_schXVIII_ptD_spt3.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93116)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s1395t]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395t
[/us/usc/t42/s401/i/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs401%2Fi%2F1
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–114]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93114
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–115]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93115
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–132/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93132%2Fa
[/us/usc/t42/s401/g]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs401%2Fg
[/us/usc/t42/s1396u–5/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1396u%E2%80%935%2Fb
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–24/d/2/A]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%9324%2Fd%2F2%2FA
[/us/usc/t42/s1395r]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395r
[/us/usc/t42/s1396u–5/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1396u%E2%80%935%2Fc
[/us/usc/t42/s1395w–141/k/5]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs1395w%E2%80%93141%2Fk%2F5
[/us/act/1935-08-14/ch531]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1935-08-14%2Fch531
[/us/pl/108/173/tI]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F173%2FtI
[/us/stat/117/2120]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F117%2F2120


