---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s307108

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307107.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs307108)

## § 307108. Privately donated funds

    (a)  __Projects for Which Funds May Be Used__  __.—__ 

    In furtherance of the purposes of this division, the Secretary may accept the donation of funds that may be expended by the Secretary for projects to acquire, restore, preserve, or recover data from any property included on the National Register, as long as the project is owned by a State, any unit of local government, or any nonprofit entity.

    (b) __Consideration of Factors Respecting Expenditure of Funds.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        In expending the funds, the Secretary shall give due consideration to—

            (A) the national significance of the project;

            (B) its historical value to the community;

            (C) the imminence of its destruction or loss; and

            (D) the expressed intentions of the donor.

        (2)  __Funds available without regard to matching requirements__  __.—__ 

        Funds expended under this subsection shall be made available without regard to the matching requirements established by sections 302901 and 302902(b) of this title, but the recipient of the funds shall be permitted to utilize them to match any grants from the Historic Preservation Fund.

    (c)  __Transfer of Unobligated Funds__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may transfer unobligated funds previously donated to the Secretary for the purposes of the Service, with the consent of the donor, and any funds so transferred shall be used or expended in accordance with this division.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3232][/us/stat/128/3232].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

307108  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470h–1  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 109, as added Pub. L. 96–244, § 1, May 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 346.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the word “included” is substituted for “listed” for consistency in the revised subtitle.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307107.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs307108)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3232]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3232


