---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s307102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs307102)

## § 307102. Effective date of regulations

    (a)  __Publication in Federal Register__  __.—__ 

    No final regulation of the Secretary shall become effective prior to the expiration of 30 calendar days after it is published in the Federal Register during which either or both Houses of Congress are in session.

    (b)  __Disapproval of Regulation by Resolution of Congress__  __.—__ 

    The regulation shall not become effective if, within 90 calendar days of continuous session of Congress after the date of promulgation, both Houses of Congress adopt a concurrent resolution, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: “That Congress disapproves the regulation promulgated by the Secretary dealing with the matter of         , which regulation was transmitted to Congress on         , ” the blank spaces in the resolution being appropriately filled.

    (c)  __Failure of Congress To Adopt Resolution of Disapproval of Regulation__  __.—__ 

    If at the end of 60 calendar days of continuous session of Congress after the date of promulgation of a regulation, no committee of either House of Congress has reported or been discharged from further consideration of a concurrent resolution disapproving the regulation, and neither House has adopted such a resolution, the regulation may go into effect immediately. If, within the 60 calendar days, a committee has reported or been discharged from further consideration of such a resolution, the regulation may go into effect not sooner than 90 calendar days of continuous session of Congress after its promulgation unless disapproved as provided for.

    (d)  __Sessions of Congress__  __.—__ 

    For purposes of this section—

        (1) continuity of session is broken only by an adjournment sine die; and

        (2) the days on which either House is not in session because of an adjournment of more than 3 days to a day certain are excluded in the computation of 60 and 90 calendar days of continuous session of Congress.

    (e)  __Congressional Inaction or Rejection of Resolution of Disapproval Not Deemed Approval of Regulation__  __.—__ 

    Congressional inaction on or rejection of a resolution of disapproval shall not be deemed an expression of approval of the regulation.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3231][/us/stat/128/3231].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

307102  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470w–6  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 307, as added Pub. L. 96–515, title V, § 501, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 3004; Pub. L. 103—437, § 6(d)(29), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4584; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(d)(1)(O), (2)(E), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4196; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, § 120(a)(2), Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 28; Pub. L. 106–208, § 5(a)(11)–(13), May 26, 2000, 114 Stat. 319.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3071/m__us_usc_t54_s307103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs307102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3231]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3231


