---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s311103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_s311102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_s311104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs311103)

## § 311103. Designation of Preserve America Communities

    (a)  __Application__  __.—__ 

    To be considered for designation as a Preserve America Community, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood shall submit to the Council an application containing such information as the Council may require.

    (b)  __Criteria__  __.—__ 

    To be designated as a Preserve America Community under the program, a community, tribal area, or neighborhood that submits an application under subsection (a) shall, as determined by the Council, in consultation with the Secretary, meet criteria required by the Council and, in addition, consider—

        (1) protection and celebration of the heritage of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood;

        (2) use of the historic assets of the community, tribal area, or neighborhood for economic development and community revitalization; and

        (3) encouragement of people to experience and appreciate local historic resources through education and heritage tourism programs.

    (c)  __Local Governments Previously Certified for Historic Preservation Activities__  __.—__ 

    The Council shall establish an expedited process for Preserve America Community designation for local governments previously certified for historic preservation activities under [section 302502 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s302502].

    (d)  __Guidelines__  __.—__ 

    The Council, in consultation with the Secretary, shall establish any guidelines that are necessary to carry out this section.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3248][/us/stat/128/3248].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

311103  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469n(d)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle D, § 7302(d), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1215.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_s311102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3111/m__us_usc_t54_s311104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs311103)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s302502]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302502
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3248]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3248


