---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/s515a

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s515.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s516.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs515a)

##### § 515a. Information for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents on rights and protections of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act

    (a) __Outreach to members__ 

        The Secretary concerned shall provide to each member of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary pertinent information on the rights and protections available to members and their dependents under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501 et seq.).

    (b) __Time of provision__ 

    The information required to be provided under subsection (a) to a member shall be provided at the following times:

        (1) During the initial orientation training of the member.

        (2) In the case of a member of a reserve component, during the initial orientation training of the member and when the member is mobilized or otherwise individually called or ordered to active duty for a period of more than one year.

        (3) At such other times as the Secretary concerned considers appropriate.

    (c) __Outreach to dependents__ 

        The Secretary concerned may provide to the adult dependents of members under the jurisdiction of the Secretary pertinent information on the rights and protections available to members and their dependents under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.

    (d) __Definitions__ 

        In this section, the terms “dependent” and “Secretary concerned” have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 511).

([Pub. L. 109–163, div. A, title VI, § 690][/us/pl/109/163/s690], Jan. 6, 2006, [119 Stat. 3337][/us/stat/119/3337].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (c), is [act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888][/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888], [54 Stat. 1178][/us/stat/54/1178], as amended, which is classified to section 501 et seq. of this Appendix. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section 501 of this Appendix and Tables.

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006, and not as part of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act which comprises sections 501 to 515 and 516 to 597b of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s515.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tI/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s516.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs515a)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/109/163/s690]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F109%2F163%2Fs690
[/us/stat/119/3337]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F119%2F3337
[/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888
[/us/stat/54/1178]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F54%2F1178


