---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308303

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308303)

## § 308303. Preservation and interpretation of Underground Railroad history, historic sites, and structures

    (a)  __Authority To Make Grants__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may make grants in accordance with this section for the preservation and restoration of historic buildings or structures associated with the Underground Railroad, and for related research and documentation to sites, programs, or facilities that have been included in the national network.

    (b)  __Grant Conditions__  __.—__ 

    Any grant made under this section shall provide that—

        (1) no change or alteration may be made in property for which the grant is used except with the agreement of the property owner and the Secretary;

        (2) the Secretary shall have the right of access at reasonable times to the public portions of the property for interpretive and other purposes; and

        (3) conversion, use, or disposal of the property for purposes contrary to the purposes of this chapter, as determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the United States to compensation equal to all Federal funds made available to the grantee under this chapter.

    (c)  __Matching Requirement__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may obligate funds made available for a grant under this section only if the grantee agrees to match, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, the amount of the grant with an amount that is equal to or greater than the grant. The Secretary may waive the requirement if the Secretary determines that an extreme emergency exists or that a waiver is in the public interest to ensure the preservation of historically significant resources.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3235][/us/stat/128/3235].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308303  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469l–2  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–203, § 4, as added Pub. L. 106–291, title I, § 150(h), Oct. 11, 2000, 114 Stat. 959; Pub. L. 110–229, title III, subtitle G, § 361(a)(2), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 801.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308303)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3235]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3235


