---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308302)

## § 308302. Program

    (a)  __Establishment; Responsibilities of Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall establish in the Service the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom. Under the national network, the Secretary shall—

        (1) produce and disseminate appropriate educational materials, such as handbooks, maps, interpretive guides, or electronic information;

        (2) enter into appropriate cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding to provide technical assistance under subsection (c); and

        (3) create and adopt an official, uniform symbol or device for the national network and issue regulations for its use.

    (b)  __Elements__  __.—__ 

    The national network shall encompass the following elements:

        (1) All System units and programs of the Service determined by the Secretary to pertain to the Underground Railroad.

        (2) Other Federal, State, local, and privately owned properties pertaining to the Underground Railroad that have a verifiable connection to the Underground Railroad and that are included on, or determined by the Secretary to be eligible for inclusion on, the National Register of Historic Places.

        (3) Other governmental and nongovernmental facilities and programs of an educational, research, or interpretive nature that are directly related to the Underground Railroad.

    (c)  __Cooperative Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding__  __.—__ 

    To achieve the purposes of this chapter and to ensure effective coordination of the Federal and non-Federal elements of the national network with System units and programs of the Service, the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements and memoranda of understanding with, and provide technical assistance—

        (1) to the heads of other Federal agencies, States, localities, regional governmental bodies, and private entities; and

        (2) in cooperation with the Secretary of State, to the governments of Canada, Mexico, and any appropriate country in the Caribbean.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3234][/us/stat/128/3234].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308302  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469l–1.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–203, § 3, July 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 679; Pub. L. 110–229, title III, subtitle G, § 361(a)(1), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 801.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “a program to be known as” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “national network” are substituted for “program” because of the definition of “national network” in [section 308301 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308301] and for consistency with subsections (b) and (c).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3083/m__us_usc_t54_s308303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308302)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3234]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3234
[/us/usc/t54/s308301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308301


