---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101703

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1017/m__us_usc_t54_s101702.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1017/m__us_usc_t54_s101704.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101703)

## § 101703. Cooperative management agreements

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    To facilitate the administration of the System, the Secretary, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers advisable, may enter into an agreement with a State or local government agency to provide for the cooperative management of the Federal and State or local park areas where a System unit is located adjacent to or near a State or local park area, and cooperative management between the Service and a State or local government agency of a portion of either the System unit or State or local park will allow for more effective and efficient management of the System unit and State or local park. The Secretary may not transfer administration responsibilities for any System unit under this paragraph.

    (b)  __Provision of Goods and Services__  __.—__ 

    Under a cooperative management agreement, the Secretary may acquire from and provide to a State or local government agency goods and services to be used by the Secretary and the State or local governmental agency in the cooperative management of land.

    (c)  __Assignment of Employee__  __.—__ 

    An assignment arranged by the Secretary under [section 3372 of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s3372] of a Federal, State, or local employee for work on any Federal, State, or local land or an extension of the assignment may be for any period of time determined by the Secretary and the State or local agency to be mutually beneficial.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3136][/us/stat/128/3136].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101703  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2 (matter before (a)).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 3 (matter before (a)), Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 826.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2(l).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 3(l), as added Pub. L. 105–391, title VIII, § 802(a), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3523.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1017/m__us_usc_t54_s101702.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1017/m__us_usc_t54_s101704.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101703)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t5/s3372]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs3372
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3136]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3136


