---
---

# 12 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t12/s5220b

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t12/ch52/schI/m__us_usc_t12_s5220a.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t12/ch52/schI/m__us_usc_t12_s5221.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft12%2Fs5220b)

## § 5220b. Multifamily mortgage resolution program

    (a) __Establishment__ 

    The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall develop a program under this subsection to ensure the protection of current and future tenants and at-risk multifamily properties, where feasible, based on criteria that may include—

        (1)

         creating sustainable financing of such properties, that may take into consideration such factors as—

            (A) the rental income generated by such properties; and

            (B) the preservation of adequate operating reserves;

        (2) maintaining the level of Federal, State, and city subsidies in effect as of July 21, 2010;

        (3) providing funds for rehabilitation; and

        (4) facilitating the transfer of such properties, when appropriate and with the agreement of owners, to responsible new owners and ensuring affordability of such properties.

    (b) __Coordination__ 

        The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may, in carrying out the program developed under this section, coordinate with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and any other Federal Government agency that the Secretary considers appropriate.

    (c) __Definition__ 

        For purposes of this section, the term “multifamily properties” means a residential structure that consists of 5 or more dwelling units.

    (d) __Prevention of qualification for criminal applicants__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

        No person shall be eligible to begin receiving assistance from the Making Home Affordable Program authorized under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ([12 U.S.C. 5201][/us/usc/t12/s5201] et seq.), or any other mortgage assistance program authorized or funded by that Act, on or after 60 days after July 21, 2010, if such person, in connection with a mortgage or real estate transaction, has been convicted, within the last 10 years, of any one of the following:

            (A) Felony larceny, theft, fraud, or forgery.

            (B) Money laundering.

            (C) Tax evasion.

        (2) __Procedures__ 

            The Secretary shall establish procedures to ensure compliance with this subsection.

        (3) __Report__ 

            The Secretary shall report to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate regarding the implementation of this provision. The report shall also describe the steps taken to implement this subsection.

([Pub. L. 111–203, title XIV, § 1481][/us/pl/111/203/s1481], July 21, 2010, [124 Stat. 2202][/us/stat/124/2202].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), is div. A of [Pub. L. 110–343][/us/pl/110/343], Oct. 3, 2008, [122 Stat. 3765][/us/stat/122/3765], which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 5201 of this title][/us/usc/t12/s5201] and Tables.

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, and also as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and not as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 which comprises this chapter.

 __Effective Date__ 

    Section effective on the date on which final regulations implementing such section take effect, or on the date that is 18 months after the designated transfer date if such regulations have not been issued by that date, see [section 1400(c) of Pub. L. 111–203][/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c], set out as an Effective Date of 2010 Amendment note under [section 1601 of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s1601], Commerce and Trade.

 __Definitions__ 

    For definitions of terms contained in this section, see [section 5301 of this title][/us/usc/t12/s5301].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t12/ch52/schI/m__us_usc_t12_s5220a.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t12/ch52/schI/m__us_usc_t12_s5221.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft12%2Fs5220b)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t12/s5201]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft12%2Fs5201
[/us/pl/111/203/s1481]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F203%2Fs1481
[/us/stat/124/2202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F2202
[/us/pl/110/343]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F343
[/us/stat/122/3765]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F122%2F3765
[/us/usc/t12/s5201]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft12%2Fs5201
[/us/pl/111/203/s1400/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F203%2Fs1400%2Fc
[/us/usc/t15/s1601]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs1601
[/us/usc/t12/s5301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft12%2Fs5301


