---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/s2091

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_tIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2092.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2091)

##### § 2091. Presidential authorization for the national defense

    (a) __Expediting production and deliveries or services__ 

        (1) __Authorized activities__ 

            To reduce current or projected shortfalls of industrial resources, critical technology items, or essential materials needed for national defense purposes, subject to such regulations as the President may prescribe, the President may authorize a guaranteeing agency to provide guarantees of loans by private institutions for the purpose of financing any contractor, subcontractor, provider of critical infrastructure, or other person in support of production capabilities or supplies that are deemed by the guaranteeing agency to be necessary to create, maintain, expedite, expand, protect, or restore production and deliveries or services essential to the national defense.

        (2) __Presidential determinations required__ 

        Except during a period of national emergency declared by Congress or the President, a loan guarantee may be entered into under this section only if the President determines that—

            (A) the loan guarantee is for an activity that supports the production or supply of an industrial resource, critical technology item, or material that is essential for national defense purposes;

            (B) without a loan guarantee, credit is not available to the loan applicant under reasonable terms or conditions sufficient to finance the activity;

            (C) the loan guarantee is the most cost effective, expedient, and practical alternative for meeting the needs of the Federal Government;

            (D) the prospective earning power of the loan applicant and the character and value of the security pledged provide a reasonable assurance of repayment of the loan to be guaranteed;

            (E) the loan to be guaranteed bears interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury to be reasonable, taking into account the then-current average yield on outstanding obligations of the United States with remaining periods of maturity comparable to the maturity of the loan;

            (F) the loan agreement for the loan to be guaranteed provides that no provision of the loan agreement may be amended or waived without the consent of the fiscal agent of the United States for the guarantee; and

            (G)

             the loan applicant has provided or will provide—

                (i) an assurance of repayment, as determined by the President; and

                (ii)

                 security—

                    (I) in the form of a performance bond, insurance, collateral, or other means acceptable to the fiscal agent of the United States; and

                    (II) in an amount equal to not less than 20 percent of the amount of the loan.

        (3) __Limitations on loans__ 

        Loans under this section may be—

            (A)

             made or guaranteed under the authority of this section only to the extent that an appropriations Act—

                (i) provides, in advance, budget authority for the cost of such guarantees, as defined in section 502 of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 ([2 U.S.C. 661a][/us/usc/t2/s661a]); and

                (ii) establishes a limitation on the total loan principal that may be guaranteed; and

            (B) made without regard to the limitations of existing law, other than [section 1341 of title 31][/us/usc/t31/s1341], United States Code.

    (b) __Fiscal agents of the United States__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            Any Federal agency or any Federal reserve bank, when designated by the President, is hereby authorized to act, on behalf of any guaranteeing agency, as fiscal agent of the United States in the making of such contracts of guarantee and in otherwise carrying out the purposes of this section.

        (2) __Funds__ 

            All such funds as may be necessary to enable any fiscal agent described in paragraph (1) to carry out any guarantee made by it on behalf of any guaranteeing agency shall be supplied and disbursed by or under authority from such guaranteeing agency.

        (3) __Limit on liability__ 

            No fiscal agent described in paragraph (1) shall have any responsibility or accountability, except as agent in taking any action pursuant to or under authority of this section.

        (4) __Reimbursements__ 

            Each fiscal agent described in paragraph (1) shall be reimbursed by each guaranteeing agency for all expenses and losses incurred by such fiscal agent in acting as agent on behalf of such guaranteeing agency, including, notwithstanding any other provision of law, attorneys’ fees and expenses of litigation.

    (c) __Oversight__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            All actions and operations of fiscal agents under authority of or pursuant to this section shall be subject to the supervision of the President, and to such regulations as the President may prescribe.

        (2) __Other authority__ 

        The President is authorized to prescribe—

            (A) either specifically or by maximum limits or otherwise, rates of interest, guarantee and commitment fees, and other charges which may be made in connection with loans, discounts, advances, or commitments guaranteed by the guaranteeing agencies through fiscal agents under this section; and

            (B) regulations governing the forms and procedures (which shall be uniform to the extent practicable) to be utilized in connection with such guarantees.

    (d) __Aggregate guarantee amounts__ 

        (1) __Industrial resource and critical technology shortfalls__ 

            (A) __In general__ 

            If the making of any guarantee or obligation of the Federal Government under this title \[sections 2091 to 2094 of this Appendix\] relating to a domestic industrial base shortfall would cause the aggregate outstanding amount of all guarantees for such shortfall to exceed $50,000,000, any such guarantee may be made only—

                (i) if the President has notified the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives in writing of the proposed guarantee; and

                (ii) after the 30-day period following the date on which notice under clause (i) is provided.

            (B) __Waivers authorized__ 

            The requirements of subparagraph (A) may be waived—

                (i) during a period of national emergency declared by Congress or the President; or

                (ii) upon a determination by the President, on a nondelegable basis, that a specific guarantee is necessary to avert an industrial resource or critical technology item shortfall that would severely impair national defense capability.

        (2) __Other limitations__ 

        The authority conferred by this section shall not be used primarily to prevent the financial insolvency or bankruptcy of any person, unless—

            (A) the President certifies that the insolvency or bankruptcy would have a direct and substantially adverse effect upon national defense production; and

            (B) a copy of the certification under subparagraph (A), together with a detailed justification thereof, is transmitted to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives not later than 10 days prior to the exercise of that authority for such use.

([Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932][/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932], title III, § 301, as added [Pub. L. 111–67, § 7][/us/pl/111/67/s7], Sept. 30, 2009, [123 Stat. 2010][/us/stat/123/2010].)

 __Prior Provisions__ 

    A prior section 2091, [act Sept. 8, 1950, ch. 932][/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932], title III, § 301, [64 Stat. 800][/us/stat/64/800]; [June 30, 1953, ch. 171, § 4][/us/act/1953-06-30/ch171/s4], [67 Stat. 129][/us/stat/67/129]; [Pub. L. 91–379, title I, § 104][/us/pl/91/379/s104], Aug. 15, 1970, [84 Stat. 799][/us/stat/84/799]; [Pub. L. 96–294, title I, § 104(a)][/us/pl/96/294/s104/a], (b), June 30, 1980, [94 Stat. 618][/us/stat/94/618]; [Pub. L. 98–265][/us/pl/98/265], §§ 3(a), 4(a), Apr. 17, 1984, [98 Stat. 149][/us/stat/98/149], 150; [Pub. L. 102–558, title I][/us/pl/102/558], §§ 121(a), 141, Oct. 28, 1992, [106 Stat. 4203][/us/stat/106/4203], 4217; [Pub. L. 107–47, § 4(1)][/us/pl/107/47/s4/1]–(3), (5), Oct. 5, 2001, [115 Stat. 260][/us/stat/115/260], related to loan guarantees, prior to the general amendment of title III of this Act by [Pub. L. 111–67][/us/pl/111/67].

 __Termination Date__ 

    Termination of section, see section 2166(a) of this Appendix.

 __Delegation of Functions__ 

    Functions of President under act Sept. 8, 1950 \[section 2061 et seq. of this Appendix\], relating to production, conservation, use, control, distribution, and allocation of energy, delegated to Secretary of Energy, see section 4 of Ex. Ord. No. 11790, eff. June 25, 1974, 39 F.R. 23185, set out as a note under [section 761 of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s761], Commerce and Trade.

    For delegation of authority of President under subsec. (a)(2) of this section, see section 305(a) of Ex. Ord. No. 13603, Mar. 16, 2012, 77 F.R. 16654, set out as a note under section 2153 of this Appendix.

 __Executive Order No. 10223__ 

    Ex. Ord. No. 10223, Mar. 12, 1951, 16 F.R. 2247, providing for the performance of certain functions under act Sept. 8, 1950, was revoked by section 404 of Ex. Ord. No. 10281, Aug. 28, 1951, 16 F.R. 8789.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_tIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1950-09-08/ch932/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1950-09-08_ch932_s2092.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932%2Fs2091)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t2/s661a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft2%2Fs661a
[/us/usc/t31/s1341]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft31%2Fs1341
[/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932
[/us/pl/111/67/s7]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F67%2Fs7
[/us/stat/123/2010]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F123%2F2010
[/us/act/1950-09-08/ch932]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1950-09-08%2Fch932
[/us/stat/64/800]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F64%2F800
[/us/act/1953-06-30/ch171/s4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-06-30%2Fch171%2Fs4
[/us/stat/67/129]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F129
[/us/pl/91/379/s104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F91%2F379%2Fs104
[/us/stat/84/799]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F84%2F799
[/us/pl/96/294/s104/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F294%2Fs104%2Fa
[/us/stat/94/618]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F94%2F618
[/us/pl/98/265]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F98%2F265
[/us/stat/98/149]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F98%2F149
[/us/pl/102/558]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F558
[/us/stat/106/4203]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F106%2F4203
[/us/pl/107/47/s4/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F107%2F47%2Fs4%2F1
[/us/stat/115/260]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F115%2F260
[/us/pl/111/67]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F67
[/us/usc/t15/s761]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs761


