---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s327

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s326.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s328.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs327)

##### § 327. Rules and regulations; penalties

    The Director is authorized to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary to preserve the confidential nature of the individual confidential records previously obtained under the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, as amended \[sections 301 to 318 of this Appendix\]. Any person charged with the duty of carrying out any of the provisions of this Act \[sections 321 to 329 of this Appendix\], and who fails to carry out such provisions or who shall knowingly violate the regulations promulgated under this section, or any person or persons who shall unlawfully obtain, gain access to, or use such records, shall, upon conviction in the district court of the United States having jurisdiction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not more than five years, or a fine of not more than $10,000, or by both such fine and imprisonment, or if subject to military or naval law, may be tried by court martial, and, on conviction, shall suffer such punishment as the court martial may direct.

([Mar. 31, 1947, ch. 26, § 7][/us/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s7], [61 Stat. 32][/us/stat/61/32].)

 __Reestablishment of Office__ 

    For termination and reestablishment dates, see note set out preceding section 321 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s326.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s328.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs327)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s7]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs7
[/us/stat/61/32]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F61%2F32


