---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s326

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s325.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s327.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs326)

##### § 326. Powers and duties of Director; acceptance of voluntary services; fiscal, disbursing, and accounting agent; status of officers of military and naval Services and Reserves and departments or agencies detailed to Office

    (a)

     The Director is authorized—

        (1) to prescribe the necessary rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this Act \[sections 321 to 329 of this Appendix\];

        (2) to create and establish, on the date hereinafter specified, Federal record depots in the several States, the District of Columbia, Territories, and possessions of the United States, and to maintain such other offices as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act \[said sections\];

        (3) to utilize the agencies of the Federal Government with the consent of the heads thereof, and to accept the services of all officers and agents of the several States, the District of Columbia, Territories, and possessions of the United States, and subdivisions thereof, in the execution of this Act \[said sections\];

        (4) to appoint and fix the compensation of such officers and employees (not to exceed 1,200 in number by November 1, 1947), as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act \[said sections\];

        (5) to delegate and provide for the delegation of any authority vested in him under this Act \[said sections\] to such officers, agents, or persons as he may designate or appoint for such purpose or as may be designated or appointed for such purpose pursuant to such rules and regulations as he may prescribe.

    (b) In the administration of this Act \[sections 321 to 329 of this Appendix\] voluntary services may be accepted.

    (c) The Chief of Finance, United States Army, <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 See Transfer of Functions note below. </sup></sup>  is designated, empowered, and directed to act as the fiscal, disbursing, and accounting agent of the Director of the Office of Selective Service Records in carrying out the provisions of this Act \[sections 321 to 329 of this Appendix\].

    (d) Any officer of the Armed Forces or any officer or employee of any department or agency of the United States who may be assigned or detailed to any office or position to carry out the provisions of this Act \[sections 321 to 329 of this Appendix\] may serve in and perform the functions of such office or position without loss of or prejudice to his status as such officer of the Armed Forces or as such officer or employee in any department or agency of the United States.

([Mar. 31, 1947, ch. 26, § 6][/us/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s6], [61 Stat. 32][/us/stat/61/32]; [Pub. L. 96–513, title V, § 507(c)][/us/pl/96/513/s507/c], Dec. 12, 1980, [94 Stat. 2919][/us/stat/94/2919].)

 __Codification__ 

Provisions of subsec. (a)(4) that authorized the Director to fix the compensation of officers and employees “with or without regard to the Classification Act of 1923, as amended: Provided, That the compensation of such persons shall not be in excess of that provided in said Act” were omitted as obsolete and superseded. Sections 1202 and 1204 of the Classification Act of 1949, [63 Stat. 972][/us/stat/63/972], 973, repealed the Classification Act of 1923 and all other laws or parts of laws inconsistent with the 1949 Act. The Classification Act of 1949 was repealed by [Pub. L. 89–554][/us/pl/89/554], Sept. 6, 1966, § 8(a), [80 Stat. 632][/us/stat/80/632], and reenacted as chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. [Section 5102 of Title 5][/us/usc/t5/s5102] contains the applicability provisions of the 1949 Act, and [section 5103 of Title 5][/us/usc/t5/s5103] authorizes the Office of Personnel Management to determine the applicability to specific positions and employees.

 __Amendments__ 

    1980—Subsec. (d). [Pub. L. 96–513][/us/pl/96/513] substituted “Any officer of the Armed Forces” for “Any officer on the active or retired list of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, or of any Reserve component thereof,” and “as such officer of the Armed Forces” for “as such officer in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard or Reserve component thereof,”.

 __Effective Date of 1980 Amendment__ 

    Amendment by [Pub. L. 96–513][/us/pl/96/513] effective Sept. 15, 1981, see [section 701 of Pub. L. 96–513][/us/pl/96/513/s701], set out as a note under [section 101 of Title 10][/us/usc/t10/s101], Armed Forces.

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Pursuant to Department of Defense Reorganization Order, Jan. 10, 1962, set out as a note under [section 3036 of Title 10][/us/usc/t10/s3036], Armed Forces, Office of Chief of Finance, United States Army, abolished and functions transferred to Secretary of the Army, with power in Secretary to delegate.

 __Reestablishment of Offices__ 

    For termination and reestablishment dates, see note set out preceding section 321 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s325.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1947-03-31/ch26/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1947-03-31_ch26_s327.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs326)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1947-03-31/ch26/s6]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1947-03-31%2Fch26%2Fs6
[/us/stat/61/32]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F61%2F32
[/us/pl/96/513/s507/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F513%2Fs507%2Fc
[/us/stat/94/2919]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F94%2F2919
[/us/stat/63/972]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F63%2F972
[/us/pl/89/554]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F89%2F554
[/us/stat/80/632]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F80%2F632
[/us/usc/t5/s5102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5102
[/us/usc/t5/s5103]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5103
[/us/pl/96/513]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F513
[/us/pl/96/513]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F513
[/us/pl/96/513/s701]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F513%2Fs701
[/us/usc/t10/s101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs101
[/us/usc/t10/s3036]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs3036


