---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1521/m__us_usc_t36_s152102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1521/m__us_usc_t36_s152104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152103)

## § 152103. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of incorporation and include—

    (1) honoring citizens, mining leaders, miners, prospectors, teachers, scientists, engineers, inventors, governmental leaders, and other individuals, who have helped to make this country great by their outstanding contributions to the establishment, development, advancement, or improvement of mining in the United States;

    (2) perpetuating the memory of those individuals and recording their contributions and achievements by the erection and maintenance of buildings, monuments, and edifices considered appropriate as a lasting memorial;

    (3) fostering, promoting, and encouraging a better understanding of the origins and growth of mining, especially in the United States, and the part mining has played in changing the economic, social, and scientific aspects of our country;

    (4) establishing and maintaining a library and museum for collecting and preserving for posterity, the history of those honored by the corporation, together with a documentation of their accomplishments and contributions to mining, including such items as mining pictures, paintings, books, papers, documents, scientific data, relics, mementos, artifacts, and things relating to those items;

    (5) cooperating with other mining organizations that are actively engaged and interested in similar projects; and

    (6) engaging in any other activity necessary or proper to accomplish any of the purposes in this section.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1410][/us/stat/112/1410].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152103  </td>

    <td> 

36:4103.  </td>

    <td> 

Nov. 14, 1988, Pub. L. 100–655, § 103, 102 Stat. 3850.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (1), the word “country” is substituted for “Nation”, and the words “of America” are omitted, for consistency in the revised title.

    In clause (2), the word “considered” is substituted for “as may be deemed” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In clause (6), the words “any other activity” are substituted for “any and all activities”, and the words “necessary or proper” are substituted for “incidental thereto or necessary, suitable, or proper”, for consistency and to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1521/m__us_usc_t36_s152102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1521/m__us_usc_t36_s152104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152103)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1410]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1410


