---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s305302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3053/m__us_usc_t54_s305301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3053/m__us_usc_t54_s305303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305302)

## § 305302. National Center for Preservation Technology and Training

    (a)  __Establishment__  __.—__ 

    There is established within the Department of the Interior a National Center for Preservation Technology and Training. The Center shall be located at Northwestern State University of Louisiana in Natchitoches, Louisiana.

    (b)  __Purposes__  __.—__ 

    The purposes of the Center shall be to—

        (1) develop and distribute preservation and conservation skills and technologies for the identification, evaluation, conservation, and interpretation of historic property;

        (2) develop and facilitate training for Federal, State, and local resource preservation professionals, cultural resource managers, maintenance personnel, and others working in the preservation field;

        (3) take steps to apply preservation technology benefits from ongoing research by other agencies and institutions;

        (4) facilitate the transfer of preservation technology among Federal agencies, State and local governments, universities, international organizations, and the private sector; and

        (5) cooperate with related international organizations including the International Council on Monuments and Sites, the International Center for the Study of Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property, and the International Council on Museums.

    (c)  __Programs__  __.—__ 

    The purposes shall be carried out through research, professional training, technical assistance, and programs for public awareness, and through a program of grants established under [section 305304 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305304].

    (d)  __Executive Director__  __.—__ 

    The Center shall be headed by an Executive Director with demonstrated expertise in historic preservation appointed by the Secretary with advice of the Board.

    (e)  __Assistance From Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall provide the Center assistance in obtaining such personnel, equipment, and facilities as may be needed by the Center to carry out its activities.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3221][/us/stat/128/3221].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

305302  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470x–2  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title IV, § 403, as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4022, Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4766.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3053/m__us_usc_t54_s305301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3053/m__us_usc_t54_s305303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305302)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s305304]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305304
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3221]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3221


