---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s200103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2001/m__us_usc_t54_s200102.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2001/m__us_usc_t54_s200104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200103)

## § 200103. Authority of Secretary to carry out certain functions and activities

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    To carry out this chapter, the Secretary may perform the functions and activities described in this section.

    (b)  __Inventory and Evaluation__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may prepare and maintain a continuing inventory and evaluation of outdoor recreation needs and resources of the United States.

    (c)  __Classification System__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may prepare a system for classification of outdoor recreation resources to assist in the effective and beneficial use and management of such resources.

    (d)  __Recreation Plan__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may formulate and maintain a comprehensive nationwide outdoor recreation plan, taking into consideration the plans of the various Federal agencies, States, and their political subdivisions. The plan shall set forth the needs and demands of the public for outdoor recreation and the current and foreseeable availability in the future of outdoor recreation resources to meet those needs. The plan shall identify critical outdoor recreation problems, recommend solutions, and recommend desirable actions to be taken at each level of government and by private interests. The Secretary shall submit the plan to the President for transmittal to Congress. Revisions of the plan shall be similarly transmitted at succeeding 5-year intervals. When a plan or revision is transmitted to the Congress, the Secretary shall transmit copies to the chief executive officials of the States.

    (e)  __Technical Assistance and Advice__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may provide technical assistance and advice to and cooperate with States, political subdivisions, and private interests, including nonprofit organizations, with respect to outdoor recreation.

    (f)  __Interstate and Regional Cooperation__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may encourage interstate and regional cooperation in the planning, acquisition, and development of outdoor recreation resources.

    (g)  __Research, Information, and Education Programs and Activities__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may—

        (1) sponsor, engage in, and assist in research relating to outdoor recreation, directly or by contract or cooperative agreements, and make payments for such purposes without regard to the limitations of section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31 concerning advances of funds when the Secretary considers such action to be in the public interest;

        (2) undertake studies and assemble information concerning outdoor recreation, directly or by contract or cooperative agreement, and disseminate the information without regard to [section 3204 of title 39][/us/usc/t39/s3204]; and

        (3) cooperate with educational institutions and others to assist in establishing education programs and activities and to encourage public use and benefits from outdoor recreation.

    (h) __Cooperation and Coordination with Federal Agencies.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may—

            (A) cooperate with and provide technical assistance to Federal agencies and obtain from them information, data, reports, advice, and assistance that are needed and can reasonably be furnished in carrying out the purposes of this chapter; and

            (B) promote coordination of Federal plans and activities generally relating to outdoor recreation.

        (2)  __Funding__  __.—__ 

        An agency furnishing advice or assistance under this paragraph may expend its own funds for those purposes, with or without reimbursement, as may be agreed to by that agency.

    (i)  __Donations__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may accept and use donations of money, property, personal services, or facilities for the purposes of this chapter.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3170][/us/stat/128/3170].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200103  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 460l–1.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 88–29, § 2, May 28, 1963, 77 Stat. 49; Pub. L. 91–375, § 6(h), Aug. 12, 1970, 84 Stat. 776.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (d), the words “which shall be prepared as soon as practicable within 5 years on and after May 28, 1963” and “Future” are omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (h), the word “department” is omitted as being included in “agency”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2001/m__us_usc_t54_s200102.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stII/ch2001/m__us_usc_t54_s200104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs200103)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t39/s3204]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft39%2Fs3204
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3170]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3170


