---
---

# 51 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t51/s60113

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schII/m__us_usc_t51_s60112.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schIII/m__us_usc_t51_stVI_ch601_schIII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft51%2Fs60113)

## § 60113. Data policy for Landsat 7

    (a)  __Landsat__  __7__  __Data Policy__  __.—__ 

    The Landsat Program Management, in consultation with other appropriate United States Government agencies, shall develop a data policy for Landsat 7 which should—

        (1) ensure that unenhanced data are available to all users at the cost of fulfilling user requests;

        (2) ensure timely and dependable delivery of unenhanced data to the full spectrum of civilian, national security, commercial, and foreign users and the National Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive;

        (3) ensure that the United States retains ownership of all unenhanced data generated by Landsat 7;

        (4) support the development of the commercial market for remote sensing data;

        (5) ensure that the provision of commercial value-added services based on remote sensing data remains exclusively the function of the private sector; and

        (6) to the extent possible, ensure that the data distribution system for Landsat 7 is compatible with the Earth Observing System Data and Information System.

    (b)  __Additional Data Policy Considerations__  __.—__ 

    In addition, the data policy for Landsat 7 may provide for—

        (1) United States private sector entities to operate ground receiving stations in the United States for Landsat 7 data;

        (2) other means for direct access by private sector entities to unenhanced data from Landsat 7; and

        (3) the United States Government to charge a per image fee, license fee, or other such fee to entities operating ground receiving stations or distributing Landsat 7 data.

([Pub. L. 111–314, § 3][/us/pl/111/314/s3], Dec. 18, 2010, [124 Stat. 3413][/us/stat/124/3413].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

60113  </td>

    <td> 

15 U.S.C. 5615(a), (b).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 102–555, title I, § 105(a), (b), Oct. 28, 1992, 106 Stat. 4170.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schII/m__us_usc_t51_s60112.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t51/stVI/ch601/schIII/m__us_usc_t51_stVI_ch601_schIII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft51%2Fs60113)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/111/314/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F314%2Fs3
[/us/stat/124/3413]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F3413


