---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s100505

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1005/m__us_usc_t54_s100504.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1005/m__us_usc_t54_s100506.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100505)

## § 100505. Periodic review of System

    (a)  __Authority of Secretary To Conduct Review__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall conduct a systematic and comprehensive review of certain aspects of the System and on a periodic basis (but not less often than every 3 years) submit to the Committee on Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report on the findings of the review, together with recommendations as the Secretary determines to be necessary.

    (b)  __Consultation__  __.—__ 

    In conducting and preparing the report, the Secretary shall consult with appropriate officials of affected Federal, State, and local agencies and national, regional, and local organizations. The consultation shall include holding public hearings that the Secretary determines to be appropriate to provide a full opportunity for public comment.

    (c)  __Contents of report__  __.—__ 

    The report shall contain the following:

        (1) A comprehensive listing of all authorized but unacquired parcels of land within the exterior boundaries of each System unit as of November 28, 1990.

        (2) A priority listing of all those unacquired parcels by System unit and for the System as a whole. The list shall describe the acreage and ownership of each parcel, the estimated cost of acquisition for each parcel (subject to any statutory acquisition limitations for the land), and the basis for the estimate.

        (3) An analysis and evaluation of the current and future needs of each System unit for resource management, interpretation, construction, operation and maintenance, personnel, and housing, together with an estimate of the costs.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3099][/us/stat/128/3099].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100505(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–9  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 101–628, title XII, §§  1213–1215, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat. 4507; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(2), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4583.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100505(b)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–10  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100505(c)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–11  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the text of [16 U.S.C. 1a–9][/us/usc/t16/s1a–9] (last sentence) is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1005/m__us_usc_t54_s100504.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1005/m__us_usc_t54_s100506.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100505)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3099]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3099
[/us/usc/t16/s1a–9]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs1a%E2%80%939


