---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s103102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1031/m__us_usc_t54_s103101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1031/m__us_usc_t54_s103103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs103102)

## § 103102. Appropriations authorized and available for certain purposes

    Appropriations for the Service are authorized and are available for—

    (1) administration, protection, improvement, and maintenance of areas, under the jurisdiction of other Federal agencies, that are devoted to recreational use pursuant to cooperative agreements;

    (2) necessary local transportation and subsistence in kind of individuals selected for employment or as cooperators, serving without other compensation, while attending fire protection training camps;

    (3) administration, protection, maintenance, and improvement of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal;

    (4) educational lectures in or in the vicinity of and with respect to System units, and services of field employees in cooperation with such nonprofit scientific and historical societies engaged in educational work in System units as the Secretary may designate;

    (5)

     travel expenses of employees attending—

        (A) Federal Government camps for training in forest fire prevention and suppression;

        (B) the Federal Bureau of Investigation National Police Academy; and

        (C) Federal, State, or municipal schools for training in building fire prevention and suppression;

    (6) investigation and establishment of water rights in accordance with local custom, laws, and decisions of courts, including the acquisition of water rights or of land or interests in land or rights-of-way for use and protection of water rights necessary or beneficial in the administration and public use of System units;

    (7) official telephone service in the field in the case of official telephones installed in private houses when authorized under regulations established by the Secretary; and

    (8) provision of transportation for children in nearby communities to and from any System unit used in connection with organized recreation and interpretive programs of the Service.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3164][/us/stat/128/3164].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

103102  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1d.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 384, § 3, 67 Stat. 496.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 17j–2(b) through (g), (i), (j).  </td>

    <td> 

 Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 788, (b) through (g), (i), (j), 60 Stat. 885, 886; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 802, Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4186.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before paragraph (1), the words “On and after August 8, 1953” in [16 U.S.C. 1d][/us/usc/t16/s1d] are omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1031/m__us_usc_t54_s103101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1031/m__us_usc_t54_s103103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs103102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3164]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3164
[/us/usc/t16/s1d]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs1d


