---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s17242

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_s17241.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_s17243.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17242)

## § 17242. Commercial insulation demonstration program

    (a) __Definitions__ 

    In this section:

        (1) __Advanced insulation__ 

            The term “advanced insulation” means insulation that has an R value of not less than R35 per inch.

        (2) __Covered refrigeration unit__ 

        The term “covered refrigeration unit” means any—

            (A) commercial refrigerated truck;

            (B) commercial refrigerated trailer; or

            (C) commercial refrigerator, freezer, or refrigerator-freezer described in [section 6313(c) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s6313/c].

    (b) __Report__ 

    Not later than 90 days after December 19, 2007, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes an evaluation of—

        (1) the state of technological advancement of advanced insulation; and

        (2) the projected amount of cost savings that would be generated by implementing advanced insulation into covered refrigeration units.

    (c) __Demonstration program__ 

        (1) __Establishment__ 

            If the Secretary determines in the report described in subsection (b) that the implementation of advanced insulation into covered refrigeration units would generate an economically justifiable amount of cost savings, the Secretary, in cooperation with manufacturers of covered refrigeration units, shall establish a demonstration program under which the Secretary shall demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of advanced insulation.

        (2) __Disclosure__ 

            The Secretary may, for a period of up to 5 years after an award is granted under the demonstration program, exempt from mandatory disclosure under [section 552 of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s552] (popularly known as the Freedom of Information Act) information that the Secretary determines would be a privileged or confidential trade secret or commercial or financial information under subsection (b)(4) of such section if the information had been obtained from a non-Government party.

        (3) __Cost-sharing__ 

            [Section 16352 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s16352] shall apply to any project carried out under this subsection.

    (d) __Authorization of appropriations__ 

        There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $8,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2009 through 2014.

([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI][/us/pl/110/140/tVI], § 652, Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1694][/us/stat/121/1694].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_s17241.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptE/m__us_usc_t42_s17243.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17242)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s6313/c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs6313%2Fc
[/us/usc/t5/s552]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs552
[/us/usc/t42/s16352]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs16352
[/us/pl/110/140/tVI]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F140%2FtVI
[/us/stat/121/1694]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F1694


