---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302701

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3027/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3027.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3027/m__us_usc_t54_s302702.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302701)

## § 302701. Program to assist Indian tribes in preserving historic property

    (a)  __Establishment of Program__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall establish a program and promulgate regulations to assist Indian tribes in preserving their historic property.

    (b)  __Communication and Cooperation__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall foster communication and cooperation between Indian tribes and State Historic Preservation Officers in the administration of the national historic preservation program to—

        (1) ensure that all types of historic property and all public interests in historic property are given due consideration; and

        (2) encourage coordination among Indian tribes, State Historic Preservation Officers, and Federal agencies in historic preservation planning and in the identification, evaluation, protection, and interpretation of historic property.

    (c)  __Tribal Values__  __.—__ 

    The program under subsection (a) shall be developed in a manner to ensure that tribal values are taken into account to the extent feasible. The Secretary may waive or modify requirements of this subdivision to conform to the cultural setting of tribal heritage preservation goals and objectives.

    (d)  __Scope of Tribal Programs__  __.—__ 

    The tribal programs implemented by specific tribal organizations may vary in scope, as determined by each Indian tribe’s chief governing authority.

    (e)  __Consultation__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribes, other Federal agencies, State Historic Preservations  <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 So in original. Probably should be “Preservation”. </sup></sup>  Officers, and other interested parties concerning the program under subsection (a).

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3199][/us/stat/128/3199].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302701  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(d)(1).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(d)(1), as added Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4006(a)(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4755.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (e), the words “and initiate the program under subparagraph (A) by not later than October 1, 1994” are omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3027/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3027.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3027/m__us_usc_t54_s302702.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302701)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3199]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3199


