---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s100905

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100904.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100906.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100905)

## § 100905. Commercial filming

    (a) __Commercial Filming Fee.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall require a permit and shall establish a reasonable fee for commercial filming activities or similar projects in a System unit. The fee shall provide a fair return to the United States and shall be based on the following criteria:

            (A) The number of days the filming activity or similar project takes place in the System unit.

            (B) The size of the film crew present in the System unit.

            (C) The amount and type of equipment present in the System unit.

        (2)  __Other factors__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may include other factors in determining an appropriate fee as the Secretary considers necessary.

    (b)  __Recovery of Costs__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall collect any costs incurred as a result of filming activities or similar projects, including administrative and personnel costs. All costs recovered shall be in addition to the fee assessed in subsection (a).

    (c) __Still Photography.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall not require a permit or assess a fee for still photography in a System unit if the photography takes place where members of the public are generally allowed. The Secretary may require a permit, assess a fee, or both, if the photography takes place at other locations where members of the public are generally not allowed, or where additional administrative costs are likely.

        (2)  __Exception__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall require and shall establish a reasonable fee for still photography that uses models or props that are not a part of the site’s natural or cultural resources or administrative facilities.

    (d)  __Protection of Resources__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall not permit any filming, still photography or other related activity if the Secretary determines that—

        (1) there is a likelihood of resource damage;

        (2) there would be an unreasonable disruption of the public’s use and enjoyment of the site; or

        (3) the activity poses health or safety risks to the public.

    (e) __Use of Proceeds.—__ 

        (1)  __Fees__  __.—__ 

        All fees collected under this section shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, without further appropriation and shall remain available until expended.

        (2)  __Costs__  __.—__ 

        All costs recovered under this section shall be available for expenditure by the Secretary, without further appropriation, at the site where the costs are collected and shall remain available until expended.

    (f)  __Processing of Permit Applications__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall establish a process to ensure that the Secretary responds in a timely manner to permit applicants for commercial filming, still photography, or other activity.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3117][/us/stat/128/3117].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100905  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 460l–6d (relating to the National Park Service)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 106–206, § 1 (relating to the National Park Service), May 26, 2000, 114 Stat. 314.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (e)(1), the words “in accordance with the formula and purposes established for the Recreational Fee Demonstration Program ([Public Law 104–134][/us/pl/104/134])” are omitted as obsolete because the Program was repealed by section 813(b) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act ([Public Law 108–447][/us/pl/108/447], [118 Stat. 3390][/us/stat/118/3390]).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100904.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100906.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100905)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3117]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3117
[/us/pl/104/134]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F134
[/us/pl/108/447]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F447
[/us/stat/118/3390]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F118%2F3390


