---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s100902

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100902)

## § 100902. Rights of way for public utilities and power and communication facilities

    (a) __Public Utilities.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        Under regulations the Secretary prescribes, the Secretary may grant a right of way through a System unit to a citizen, association, or corporation of the United States that intends to use the right of way for—

            (A) electrical plants, poles, and lines for the generation and distribution of electrical power;

            (B) telephone and telegraph purposes; and

            (C) canals, ditches, pipes and pipe lines, flumes, tunnels, or other water conduits and water plants, dams, and reservoirs used to promote irrigation or mining or quarrying, or the manufacturing or cutting of timber or lumber, or the supplying of water for domestic, public, or any other beneficial uses.

        (2)  __Extent of right of way__  __.—__ 

        A right of way under this subsection shall be for—

            (A) the ground occupied by the canals, ditches, flumes, tunnels, reservoirs, or other water conduits or water plants, or electrical or other works permitted under paragraph (1); and

            (B)

             not more than 50 feet—

                (i) on each side of the marginal limits of the ground; or

                (ii) on each side of the center line of the pipes and pipe lines, electrical, telegraph, and telephone lines and poles.

        (3)  __Approval__  __.—__ 

        A right of way under this subsection shall be allowed within or through a System unit only on the approval of the Secretary and on a finding that the right of way is not incompatible with the public interest.

        (4)  __Revocation__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may revoke a right of way under this subsection.

        (5)  __Right, easement, or interest not conferred__  __.—__ 

        A right of way under this subsection does not confer any right, easement, or interest in, to, or over a System unit.

    (b) __Power and Communication Facilities.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        Under regulations the Secretary prescribes, the Secretary may grant a right of way over, across, and on through a System unit to a citizen, association, or corporation of the United States that intends to use the right of way for—

            (A) electrical poles and lines for the transmission and distribution of electrical power;

            (B) poles and lines for communication purposes; and

            (C) radio, television, and other forms of communication transmitting, relay, and receiving structures and facilities.

        (2)  __Extent of right of way__  __.—__ 

        A right of way under this subsection—

            (A) shall be for not more than 50 years from the date the right of way is granted; and

            (B)

             for—

                (i) lines and poles shall be for 200 feet on each side of the center line of the lines and poles; and

                (ii) radio, television, and other forms of communication transmitting, relay, and receiving structures and facilities shall be for not more than 400 feet by 400 feet.

        (3)  __Approval__  __.—__ 

        A right of way under this subsection shall be allowed within or through a System unit only on the approval of the Secretary and on a finding that the right of way is not incompatible with the public interest.

        (4)  __Forfeiture and annulment__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may forfeit and annul any part of a right of way under this subsection for—

            (A) nonuse for a period of 2 years; or

            (B) abandonment.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3113][/us/stat/128/3113].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100902(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 79  </td>

    <td> 

Feb. 15, 1901, ch.372 (relating to System units), 31 Stat. 790.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100902(b)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5  </td>

    <td> 

Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 238 (4th and last paragraphs (relating to System units) under heading “Improvement of the National Forest” under heading “Forest Service”), 36 Stat. 1253; May 27, 1952, ch. 338, 66 Stat. 95.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the text of [16 U.S.C. 79][/us/usc/t16/s79] (2d proviso) is omitted as obsolete because title 65 of the Revised States of the United States was repealed by [section 1 of the Act of July 16, 1947][/us/act/1947-07-16/s1] (ch. 256, [61 Stat. 327][/us/stat/61/327]).

    In subsection (a)(1), the words “and the Yosemite, Sequoia, and General Grant national parks, California” are omitted as unnecessary because “other reservations” encompasses all System units.

    The inclusion of paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (a) do not have any effect on rights of way under subsection (b).

    In subsection (a)(4), the words “or his successor in his discretion” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (b), the text of [16 U.S.C. 5][/us/usc/t16/s5] (last paragraph) is omitted as obsolete. The word “Secretary” is substituted for “the head of the department having jurisdiction over the lands” and “chief officer of the department under whose supervision or control such reservation falls” because the portion of the Act of March 4, 1911 (ch. 238, [36 Stat. 1253][/us/stat/36/1253]) classified to [16 U.S.C. 5][/us/usc/t16/s5] relates only to System units

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1009/m__us_usc_t54_s100903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100902)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3113]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3113
[/us/usc/t16/s79]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs79
[/us/act/1947-07-16/s1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1947-07-16%2Fs1
[/us/stat/61/327]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F61%2F327
[/us/usc/t16/s5]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5
[/us/stat/36/1253]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F36%2F1253
[/us/usc/t16/s5]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs5


