---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153704

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153703.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153705.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153704)

## § 153704. Governing body

    (a)  __National Convention__  __.—__ 

        (1) The national convention is the supreme governing authority of the corporation.

        (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected representatives from the States as provided by the regulations of the corporation. However, the form of government of the corporation must be representative of the membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large.

        (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the District of Columbia or in any State.

        (4) During the intervals between the convention, the executive officers are the governing board of the corporation and are responsible for the general policies, program, and activities of the corporation.

    (b)  __Council of Administration__  __.—__ 

    The council of administration of the corporation shall consist of at least 7 members elected in the manner and for the term provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

    (c)  __Officers__  __.—__ 

        (1) The officers of the corporation are a national president, senior vice national president, junior vice national president, secretary, treasurer, and other officers as provided in the constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the offices of secretary and treasurer.

        (2) The titles, manner of election, term of office, and duties of the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1428][/us/stat/112/1428].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153704(a)(1)– (3)  </td>

    <td> 

36:1006.  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 7, 1962, Pub. L. 87–650, §§ 6–8, 76 Stat. 504.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153704(a)(4)  </td>

    <td> 

36:1007(a), (b).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153704(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:1007(c).  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153704(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:1008.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(2), the words “several”, “always”, “thereof”, and “the hands of” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (a)(4), the text of 36:1007(b) is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (b), the word “Thereafter” is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153703.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153705.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153704)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1428]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1428


