---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153705

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153705)

## § 153705. Powers

    The corporation may—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) choose officers as the corporation requires;

    (4) make contracts;

    (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the corporation; and

    (6) sue and be sued.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1429][/us/stat/112/1429].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153705  </td>

    <td> 

36:1004(2)–(8).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 7, 1962, Pub. L. 87–650, §§ 4(2)–(8), 18, 76 Stat. 503, 506.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

36:1018.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of 36:1018 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

    In clause (1), the word “alter” is omitted as included in “amend”. The words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State in which the corporation is to operate” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (2), the word “use” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (4), the words “make contracts” are substituted for “contract and be contracted with” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    Clause (5) is substituted for “take by lease, gift, purchase, grants, devise, or bequest from any public body or agency or any private corporation, association, partnership, firm, or individual and to hold absolutely or in trust for any of the purposes of the corporation any property, real, personal, or mixed, necessary or convenient for attaining the objects and carrying into effect the purposes of the corporation” and “transfer, convey, lease, sublease, encumber, and otherwise alienate real, personal, or mixed property” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject, however, to applicable provisions of law of any State, (A) governing the amount or kind of property which may be held by, or (B) otherwise limiting or controlling the ownership of property by, a corporation operating in such State” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (6), the words “complain and defend in any court of competent jurisdiction” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1537/m__us_usc_t36_s153706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153705)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1429]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1429


