---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152403

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1524/m__us_usc_t36_s152402.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1524/m__us_usc_t36_s152404.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152403)

## § 152403. Board of directors

    (a)  __General__  __.—__ 

    The board of directors is the governing body of the corporation.

    (b)  __Members and Appointment__  __.—__ 

        (1) The Librarian of Congress (hereafter in this chapter referred to as the “Librarian”) is an ex officio nonvoting member of the board. Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this chapter, the Librarian shall appoint the directors to the board in accordance with paragraph (2).

        (2)

            (A) The board consists of nine directors.

            (B) Each director shall be a United States citizen.

            (C) At least six directors shall be knowledgeable or experienced in sound recording production, distribution, preservation, or restoration, including two who are sitting members of the National Recording Preservation Board. These six directors shall, to the extent practicable, represent diverse points of view from the sound recording community.

        (3) A director is not an employee of the Library of Congress and appointment to the board does not constitute appointment as an officer or employee of the United States Government for the purpose of any law of the United States.

        (4) The terms of office of the directors are 4 years.

        (5) A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.

    (c)  __Chair__  __.—__ 

    The Librarian shall appoint one of the directors as the initial chair of the board for a 2-year term. Thereafter, the chair shall be appointed and removed in accordance with the bylaws of the corporation.

    (d)  __Quorum__  __.—__ 

    The number of directors constituting a quorum of the board shall be established under the bylaws of the corporation.

    (e)  __Meetings__  __.—__ 

    The board shall meet at the call of the Librarian for regularly scheduled meetings.

    (f)  __Reimbursement of Expenses__  __.—__ 

    Directors shall serve without compensation but may receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5.

    (g)  __Liability of Directors__  __.—__ 

    Directors are not personally liable, except for gross negligence.

(Added [Pub. L. 106–474, title II, § 201(a)][/us/pl/106/474/s201/a], Nov. 9, 2000, [114 Stat. 2092][/us/stat/114/2092]; amended [Pub. L. 110–336, § 2(b)(2)][/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/2], Oct. 2, 2008, [122 Stat. 3727][/us/stat/122/3727].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The date of the enactment of this chapter, referred to in subsec. (b), is the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 106–474][/us/pl/106/474], which was approved Nov. 9, 2000.

 __Amendments__ 

    2008—Subsec. (b)(4). [Pub. L. 110–336][/us/pl/110/336] struck out at end “An individual may not serve more than two consecutive terms.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1524/m__us_usc_t36_s152402.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1524/m__us_usc_t36_s152404.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152403)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/106/474/s201/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F106%2F474%2Fs201%2Fa
[/us/stat/114/2092]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F114%2F2092
[/us/pl/110/336/s2/b/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F336%2Fs2%2Fb%2F2
[/us/stat/122/3727]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F122%2F3727
[/us/pl/106/474]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F106%2F474
[/us/pl/110/336]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F336


