---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s200304

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2003/m__us_usc_t36_s200303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2003/m__us_usc_t36_s200305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs200304)

## § 200304. Governing body

    (a)  __National Encampment__  __.—__ 

        (1) The national encampment is the supreme governing authority of the corporation.

        (2) The national encampment is composed of officers and elected representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws. However, the form of government of the corporation must be representative of the membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large.

        (3) The meetings of the national encampment may be held in the District of Columbia or in any State, territory, or possession of the United States.

    (b)  __Council of Administration__  __.—__ 

        (1) During the intervals between the national encampments, the council of administration is the governing board of the corporation and is responsible for the general policies, program, and activities of the corporation.

        (2) The council of administration shall consist of at least seven members elected in the manner and for the term provided in the constitution and bylaws.

    (c)  __Officers__  __.—__ 

        (1) The officers of the corporation are a commander in chief, a senior vice commander in chief, a junior vice commander in chief, a secretary, a treasurer, and other officers as provided in the constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the offices of secretary and treasurer.

        (2) The manner of selection, term of office, and duties of the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1453][/us/stat/112/1453].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200304(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:536.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 20, 1954, ch. 774, §§ 6–8, 68 Stat. 750.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200304(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:537.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

200304(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:538.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(2), the words “several”, “always”, and “thereof . . . the hands of” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (a)(3), the words “State, territory, or possession of the United States” are substituted for “State or Territory” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

    In subsection (b), the text of 36:537(b) is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (c), the words “One individual may hold the offices of secretary and treasurer” are substituted for “(which latter two offices may be held by one person)” to eliminate unnecessary words. The word “provided” is substituted for “may be prescribed” to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2003/m__us_usc_t36_s200303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2003/m__us_usc_t36_s200305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs200304)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1453]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1453


