---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s130303

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1303/m__us_usc_t36_s130302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1303/m__us_usc_t36_s130304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs130303)

## § 130303. Membership

    (a) __Eligibility.—__ 

    An individual is eligible for active membership in the corporation if the individual—

        (1) is of good moral character; and

        (2) has received a Congressional Medal of Honor, a Distinguished Service Cross, a Navy Cross, or an Air Force Cross awarded for acts of extraordinary heroism in connection with military or naval operations against an armed enemy, or for heroism of a specially distinguished character, as a member of the Armed Forces of the United States or any foreign country.

    (b) __Extension of Eligibility to Parents and Descendants.—__ 

    The corporation may extend eligibility for membership, either active or associate, to parents and lineal descendants of an individual described in subsection (a) of this section on terms provided in its constitution and bylaws.

    (c) __Voting.—__ 

    Each member (except an associate member) has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the members.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1374][/us/stat/112/1374].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

130303  </td>

    <td> 

36:636.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 546, § 6, 69 Stat. 488; June 21, 1961, Pub. L. 87–56, § 2, 75 Stat. 95.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(2), the words “has received” are substituted for “who have received or who may hereafter receive” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “Navy Cross” are restated before “Air Force Cross” in accordance with the order preferred by the Legion of Valor of the United States of America, Incorporated. The words “as a member” are substituted for “are, have been, or may become members . . . of whatever rank” for clarity and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (b), the words “on terms” are substituted for “under such conditions and upon such terms” to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In subsection (c), the words “the right to” are omitted as unnecessary.

    The text of 36:636(d) is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1303/m__us_usc_t36_s130302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1303/m__us_usc_t36_s130304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs130303)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1374]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1374


