---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s140303

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1403/m__us_usc_t36_s140302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1403/m__us_usc_t36_s140304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs140303)

## § 140303. Powers

    The corporation may—

    (1) make its own organization, including its constitution, bylaws, and regulations;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;

    (4) appoint or elect officers and agents;

    (5) authorize the executive committee to conduct the business and exercise the powers of the corporation;

    (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (7) publish a magazine and other publications;

    (8) charge and collect membership dues and subscription fees;

    (9) sue and be sued; and

    (10) do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1380][/us/stat/112/1380].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

140303  </td>

    <td> 

36:314(b)–(k).  </td>

    <td> 

Sept. 20, 1950, ch. 956, §§ 4(b)–(k), 5, 64 Stat. 868.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

36:315.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (1), the word “rules” is omitted as being the same as “regulations”.

    In clause (2), the words “at pleasure” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (3), the words “and transaction” are omitted as unnecessary. The word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

    Clause (6) is substituted for “acquire, by purchase, devise, bequest, gift, or otherwise, and hold, encumber, convey, or otherwise dispose of, such real and personal property as may be necessary or appropriate for its corporate purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The text of 36:315 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

    In clause (8), the words “and receive contributions of money or property to be devoted to the carrying out of the purposes of the organization” are omitted as unnecessary because of clause (6) of the revised section.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1403/m__us_usc_t36_s140302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1403/m__us_usc_t36_s140304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs140303)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1380]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1380


