---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s140505

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1405/m__us_usc_t36_s140504.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1405/m__us_usc_t36_s140506.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs140505)

## § 140505. Powers

The corporation may—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) make contracts;

    (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (5) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property;

    (6) charge and collect membership dues; and

    (7) sue and be sued.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1382][/us/stat/112/1382].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

140505  </td>

    <td> 

36:824(2)–(9).  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 26, 1958, Pub. L. 85–761, §§ 4(2)–(9), 16, 72 Stat. 856, 859.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

36:836.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of 36:836 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

    In clause (1), the word “alter” is omitted as included in “amend”. The words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any State in which the corporation is to operate” are omitted as unnecessary.

    Clause (4) is substituted for “take \[by\] lease, gift, purchase, grant, devise, or bequest from any private corporation, association, partnership, firm or individual and to hold any property, real, personal or mixed, necessary or convenient for attaining the object and carrying into effect the purposes of the corporation” and “transfer, convey, lease, sublease, encumber, and otherwise alienate real, personal or mixed property” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject, however, to applicable provisions of law of any State (A) governing the amount or kind of property which may be held, or (B) otherwise limiting or controlling the ownership of property by, a corporation operating in such State” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (5), the words “for the purposes of the corporation” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “issue instruments of indebtedness, and secure its obligations by granting security interests in its property” are substituted for “issue bonds therefor, and secure the same by mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, or otherwise” to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “subject in every case to all applicable provisions of Federal and State laws” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (7), the words “complain and defend in any court of competent jurisdiction” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1405/m__us_usc_t36_s140504.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1405/m__us_usc_t36_s140506.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs140505)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1382]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1382


