---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s103302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1033/m__us_usc_t54_s103301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1033/m__us_usc_t54_s103303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs103302)

## § 103302. Camps for military instruction

    (a)  __Assembling of Forces and Detailing of Instructors__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary of the Army or Secretary of the Air Force, within the limits of appropriations that may be available for that purpose, may assemble in camp at such season of the year and for such period as the Secretary of the Army or Secretary of the Air Force may designate, at the field of military maneuvers, such portions of the military forces of the United States as the Secretary of the Army or Secretary of the Air Force may think best, to receive military instruction there. The Secretary of the Army of Secretary of the Air Force may detail instructors from the Regular Army or Regular Air Force, respectively, for those forces during their exercises.

    (b)  __Regulations__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary of the Army or Secretary of the Air Force may prescribe regulations governing the assembling of the National Guard or militia of the States on the maneuvering grounds.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3165][/us/stat/128/3165].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

103302  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 412  </td>

    <td> 

May 15, 1896, ch. 182, § 2, 29 Stat. 121; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, § 205(a), 61 Stat. 501.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the words “or Secretary of the Air Force” and “or Regular Air Force” are added because certain functions, personnel, and property, insofar as they pertain to the Air Force, were transferred from the Secretary of the Army and Department of the Army to the Secretary of the Air Force and Department of the Air Force by Secretary of Defense Transfer Order Nos. 1, September 26, 1947; 10, April 27, 1948; and 40 \[App. B(65)\], July 22, 1949.

    In subsection (b), the words “and publish” are omitted because of [44 U.S.C. 1505][/us/usc/t44/s1505].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1033/m__us_usc_t54_s103301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1033/m__us_usc_t54_s103303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs103302)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3165]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3165
[/us/usc/t44/s1505]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft44%2Fs1505


