---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s305105

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305105)

## § 305105. Description of property

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    The Administrator shall prepare the legal description of any historic light station conveyed under this chapter. The Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary, may retain all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to any historical artifact, including any lens or lantern, that is associated with the historic light station and located at the historic light station at the time of conveyance. Wherever possible, the historical artifacts should be used in interpreting the historic light station. In cases where there is no method for preserving lenses and other artifacts and equipment in situ, priority should be given to preservation or museum entities most closely associated with the historic light station, if they meet loan requirements.

    (b)  __Artifacts__  __.—__ 

    Artifacts associated with, but not located at, a historic light station at the time of conveyance shall remain the property of the United States under the administrative control of the Secretary of Homeland Security.

    (c)  __Covenants__  __.—__ 

    All conditions placed with the quitclaim deed of title to the historic light station shall be construed as covenants running with the land.

    (d)  __Submerged Land__  __.—__ 

    No submerged land shall be conveyed under this chapter.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3219][/us/stat/128/3219].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

305105  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470w–7(d).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 308(d), as added Pub. L. 106–355, § 2, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1388.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “Secretary of Homeland Security” are substituted for “Commandant, United States Coast Guard” because of [6 U.S.C. 112(a)(2)][/us/usc/t6/s112/a/2], 468(b) and (h), 551(d), and 552(d) and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002 (H. Doc. No. 108–16, 108th Cong., 1st Sess. ([6 U.S.C. 542][/us/usc/t6/s542] note)).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305105)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3219]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3219
[/us/usc/t6/s112/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft6%2Fs112%2Fa%2F2
[/us/usc/t6/s542]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft6%2Fs542


