---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s305103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305103)

## § 305103. Selection of eligible entity and conveyance of historic light stations

    (a)  __Process and Policies__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary and the Administrator shall maintain a process and policies for identifying, and selecting, an eligible entity to which a historic light station could be conveyed for education, park, recreation, cultural, or historic preservation purposes, and to monitor the use of the light station by the eligible entity.

    (b) __Application Review.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall—

            (A) review all applications for the conveyance of a historic light station, when the agency with administrative jurisdiction over the historic light station has determined the property to be excess property (as that term is defined in [section 102 of title 40][/us/usc/t40/s102]); and

            (B) forward to the Administrator a single approved application for the conveyance of the historic light station.

        (2)  __Consultation__  __.—__ 

        When selecting an eligible entity, the Secretary shall consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer of the State in which the historic light station is located.

    (c) __Conveyance or Sale of Historic Light Stations.—__ 

        (1)  __Conveyance by administrator__  __.—__ 

        Except as provided in paragraph (2), after the Secretary’s selection of an eligible entity, the Administrator shall convey, by quitclaim deed, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a historic light station, subject to the conditions set forth in [section 305104 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305104]. The conveyance of a historic light station under this chapter shall not be subject to the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ([42 U.S.C. 11301][/us/usc/t42/s11301] et seq.) or section 416(d) of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1998 ([Public Law 105–383][/us/pl/105/383], [14 U.S.C. 93][/us/usc/t14/s93] note).

        (2) __Historic light station located within a system unit or a refuge within national wildlife refuge system.—__ 

            (A)  __Approval of secretary required__  __.—__ 

            A historic light station located within the exterior boundaries of a System unit or a refuge within the National Wildlife Refuge System shall be conveyed or sold only with the approval of the Secretary.

            (B)  __Conditions of conveyance__  __.—__ 

            If the Secretary approves the conveyance of a historic light station described in subparagraph (A), the conveyance shall be subject to the conditions set forth in [section 305104 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305104] and any other terms or conditions that the Secretary considers necessary to protect the resources of the System unit or wildlife refuge.

            (C)  __Conditions of sale__  __.—__ 

            If the Secretary approves the sale of a historic light station described in subparagraph (A), the sale shall be subject to the conditions set forth in paragraphs (1) to (4) and (8) of subsection (a), and subsection (b), of [section 305104 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305104] and any other terms or conditions that the Secretary considers necessary to protect the resources of the System unit or wildlife refuge.

            (D)  __Cooperative agreements__  __.—__ 

            The Secretary is encouraged to enter into cooperative agreements with appropriate eligible entities with respect to historic light stations described in subparagraph (A), as provided in this division, to the extent that the cooperative agreements are consistent with the Secretary’s responsibilities to manage and administer the System unit or wildlife refuge.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3216][/us/stat/128/3216].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

305103  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470w–7(b)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 308(b), as added Pub. L. 106–355, § 2, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1385; Pub. L. 106–400, § 2, Oct. 30, 2000, 114 Stat. 1675.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305103)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t40/s102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft40%2Fs102
[/us/usc/t54/s305104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305104
[/us/usc/t42/s11301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs11301
[/us/pl/105/383]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F383
[/us/usc/t14/s93]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft14%2Fs93
[/us/usc/t54/s305104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305104
[/us/usc/t54/s305104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305104
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3216]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3216


