---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s305101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3051.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305101)

## § 305101. Definitions

    In this chapter:

    (1)  __Administrator__  __.—__ 

    The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of General Services.

    (2)  __Eligible entity__  __.—__ 

    The term “eligible entity” means—

        (A) any department or agency of the Federal Government; or

        (B)

         any department or agency of the State in which a historic light station is located, the local government of the community in which a historic light station is located, a nonprofit corporation, an educational agency, or a community development organization that—

            (i) has agreed to comply with the conditions set forth in [section 305104 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305104] and to have the conditions recorded with the deed of title to the historic light station; and

            (ii) is financially able to maintain the historic light station in accordance with the conditions set forth in [section 305104 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s305104].

    (3) __Federal aid to navigation.—__ 

        (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The term “Federal aid to navigation” means any device, operated and maintained by the United States, external to a vessel or aircraft, intended to assist a navigator to determine position or safe course, or to warn of dangers or obstructions to navigation.

        (B)  __Inclusions__  __.—__ 

        The term “Federal aid to navigation” includes a light, lens, lantern, antenna, sound signal, camera, sensor, piece of electronic navigation equipment, power source, or other piece of equipment associated with a device described in subparagraph (A).

    (4)  __Historic light station__  __.—__ 

    The term “historic light station” includes the light tower, lighthouse, keeper’s dwelling, garages, storage sheds, oil house, fog signal building, boat house, barn, pumphouse, tramhouse support structures, piers, walkways, underlying and appurtenant land and related real property and improvements associated with a historic light station that is a historic property.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3215][/us/stat/128/3215].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

305101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470w–7(e).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title III, § 308(e), as added Pub. L. 106–355, § 2, Oct. 24, 2000, 114 Stat. 1388.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    The text of [16 U.S.C. 470w–7(e)(5)][/us/usc/t16/s470w–7/e/5] is omitted as unnecessary.

    In paragraph (3)(A), the words “that is a historic property” are substituted for “provided that the ‘historic light station’ shall be included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places” because of the definition of “historic property” in section 300308 of the new title.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3051.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3051/m__us_usc_t54_s305102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305101)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s305104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305104
[/us/usc/t54/s305104]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs305104
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3215]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3215
[/us/usc/t16/s470w–7/e/5]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs470w%E2%80%937%2Fe%2F5


