---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1531/m__us_usc_t36_s153101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1531/m__us_usc_t36_s153103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153102)

## § 153102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and educational, and include—

    (1)

     perpetuating the memory and spirit of the men and women who achieved American independence by—

        (A) acquiring and protecting historical spots and erecting monuments;

        (B) encouraging historical research in relation to the Revolution and publishing its results;

        (C) preserving documents and relics and the records of the individual services of Revolutionary soldiers and patriots; and

        (D) promoting celebrations of all patriotic anniversaries;

    (2) carrying out the injunction of Washington, in his farewell address to the American people, “to promote, as an object of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge,” thus developing an enlightened public opinion and affording to young and old such advantages as shall develop in them the largest capacity for performing the duties of American citizens;

    (3) cherishing, maintaining, and extending the institutions of American freedom;

    (4) fostering true patriotism and love of country; and

    (5) aiding in securing for mankind all the blessings of liberty.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1422][/us/stat/112/1422].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153102  </td>

    <td> 

36:18 (words beginning with “for patriotic”).  </td>

    <td> 

Feb. 20, 1896, ch. 23, § 1 (words beginning with “for patriotic”), 29 Stat. 8.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1531/m__us_usc_t36_s153101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1531/m__us_usc_t36_s153103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1422]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1422


