---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101918

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101917.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101919.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101918)

## § 101918. Transfer or conveyance of concession contracts or leasehold surrender interests

    (a)  __Approval of Secretary__  __.—__ 

    No concession contract or leasehold surrender interest may be transferred, assigned, sold, or otherwise conveyed or pledged by a concessioner without prior written notification to, and approval by, the Secretary.

    (b)  __Conditions__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall approve a transfer or conveyance described in subsection (a) unless the Secretary finds that—

        (1) the individual, corporation, or other entity seeking to acquire a concession contract is not qualified or able to satisfy the terms and conditions of the concession contract;

        (2)

         the transfer or conveyance would have an adverse impact on—

            (A) the protection, conservation, or preservation of the resources of the System unit; or

            (B) the provision of necessary and appropriate facilities and services to visitors at reasonable rates and charges; and

        (3)

         the terms of the transfer or conveyance are likely, directly or indirectly, to—

            (A) reduce the concessioner’s opportunity for a reasonable profit over the remaining term of the concession contract;

            (B) adversely affect the quality of facilities and services provided by the concessioner; or

            (C) result in a need for increased rates and charges to the public to maintain the quality of the facilities and services.

    (c)  __Modification or Renegotiation of Terms__  __.—__ 

    The terms and conditions of any concession contract under this section shall not be subject to modification or open to renegotiation by the Secretary because of a transfer or conveyance described in subsection (a) unless the transfer or conveyance would have an adverse impact as described in subsection (b)(2).

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3147][/us/stat/128/3147].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101918  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5957.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 408, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3512.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b)(1), the word “other” is added for consistency in the subchapter. See section 101926 of the revised title.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101917.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101919.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101918)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3147]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3147


