---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101923

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101922.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101924.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101923)

## § 101923. Recordkeeping requirements

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    A concessioner and any subconcessioner shall keep such records as the Secretary may prescribe to enable the Secretary to determine that all terms of a concession contract have been and are being faithfully performed. The Secretary and any authorized representative of the Secretary shall, for the purpose of audit and examination, have access to those records and to other records of the concessioner or subconcessioner pertinent to the concession contract and all terms and conditions of the concession contract.

    (b)  __Access to Records by Comptroller General__  __.—__ 

    The Comptroller General and any authorized representative of the Comptroller General shall, until the expiration of 5 calendar years after the close of the business year of each concessioner or subconcessioner, have access to and the right to examine any pertinent records described in subsection (a) of the concessioner or subconcessioner related to the contract involved.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3150][/us/stat/128/3150].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101923  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5963.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 414, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3515.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the word “duly” is omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (a), the words “and any subconcessioner” and “or subconcessioner” are added for clarity. See 36 CFR 51.98. The word “records” is substituted for “books, documents, and papers” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

    In subsection (b), the words “books, papers, documents” are omitted as included in “records”. The words “described in subsection (a)” are added for clarity.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101922.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101924.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101923)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3150]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3150


