---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101912

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101911.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101913.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101912)

## § 101912. Findings and declaration of policy

    (a)  __Findings__  __.—__ 

    In furtherance of section 100101(a), Congress finds that the preservation and conservation of System unit resources and values requires that public accommodations, facilities, and services that have to be provided within those System units should be provided only under carefully controlled safeguards against unregulated and indiscriminate use, so that—

        (1) visitation will not unduly impair those resources and values; and

        (2) development of public accommodations, facilities, and services within System units can best be limited to locations that are consistent to the highest practicable degree with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the System units.

    (b)  __Declaration of Policy__  __.—__ 

    It is the policy of Congress that the development of public accommodations, facilities, and services in System units shall be limited to accommodations, facilities, and services that—

        (1) are necessary and appropriate for public use and enjoyment of the System unit in which they are located; and

        (2) are consistent to the highest practicable degree with the preservation and conservation of the resources and values of the System unit.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3138][/us/stat/128/3138].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101912  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 5951  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 402, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3503.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “section 100101(a)” are substituted for “sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of this title, which directs the Secretary to administer units of the National Park System in accordance with the fundamental purpose of conserving their scenery, wildlife, and natural and historic objects, and providing for their enjoyment in a manner that will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations” to give a more precise cross reference because section 100101(a) of the new title is where that direction to the Secretary is restated.

 __Repeal of National Park Service Concessions Policy Act; Savings Provision__ 

[Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 415(a)][/us/pl/105/391/s415/a], Nov. 13, 1998, [112 Stat. 3515][/us/stat/112/3515], provided that: 

> “[Public Law 89–249][/us/pl/89/249] (commonly known as the National Park Service Concessions Policy Act; [16 U.S.C. 20][/us/usc/t16/s20] et seq.) is repealed. The repeal of such Act shall not affect the validity of any concessions contract or permit entered into under such Act, but the provisions of this title \[see Short Title of 1998 Act note set out under [section 100101 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s100101]\] shall apply to any such contract or permit except to the extent such provisions are inconsistent with the terms and conditions of any such contract or permit. References in this title to concessions contracts awarded under authority of such Act also apply to concessions permits awarded under such authority.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101911.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1019/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101913.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101912)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3138]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3138
[/us/pl/105/391/s415/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F391%2Fs415%2Fa
[/us/stat/112/3515]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F3515
[/us/pl/89/249]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F89%2F249
[/us/usc/t16/s20]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs20
[/us/usc/t54/s100101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100101


