---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s150705

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1507/m__us_usc_t36_s150704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1507/m__us_usc_t36_s150706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs150705)

## § 150705. Board of directors

    (a) __General.—__ 

    The board of directors is the governing body of the corporation. The board shall exercise the powers granted to the corporation.

    (b) __Number and Election.—__ 

    The number of directors and their term of office are as provided in the bylaws, except that the board shall have at least 10 members (including ex officio members). The directors are elected from among the officers and members of the member agencies and organizations participating in the annual national conference on citizenship, by a majority vote of the agencies and organizations sending delegates to, and participating in, the conference.

    (c) __Meetings.—__ 

    The board shall hold an annual meeting at a time and place as may be provided in the bylaws. The annual report of the board shall be presented at the annual meeting. Special meetings of the board may be called as provided in the bylaws.

    (d) __Executive Committee.—__ 

    The board shall designate 3 of its own members, who together with the president and the 3 vice presidents constitute the executive committee. When the board is not in session, the executive committee has the powers of the board subject to the board’s direction and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers that require it.

    (e) __Executive Director and Professional Staff.—__ 

    The executive committee shall select an executive director for the corporation, who shall have the qualifications and terms of employment decided by the committee. The executive director shall nominate other professional staff members, who must be approved by the executive committee.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1392][/us/stat/112/1392].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

150705  </td>

    <td> 

36:438.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 427, § 8, 67 Stat. 564.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “From August 13, 1953, until the final session of the next following annual conference . . . shall be the persons named in [section 431 of this title][/us/usc/t36/s431] and such additional persons as shall be named by them. Thereafter” are omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (b), the words “one vote to each such agency and to each such organization” are omitted because section 150703(b) of the revised title already states that each of those agencies and organizations has one vote.

    In subsection (c), the words “hold an annual meeting” are substituted for “meet at least once each year” for consistency in the revised title.

    In subsection (d), the words “and exercise” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (e), the words “who shall have the qualifications and terms of employment decided” are substituted for “in keeping with qualifications and terms of employment adopted” for clarity and consistency.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1507/m__us_usc_t36_s150704.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1507/m__us_usc_t36_s150706.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs150705)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1392]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1392
[/us/usc/t36/s431]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs431


