---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s312105

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312105)

## § 312105. Powers

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    To the extent necessary to enable it to carry out the functions vested in it by this chapter, the National Trust has the general powers described in this section.

    (b)  __Succession__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust has succession until dissolved by Act of Congress, in which event title to the property of the National Trust, both real and personal, shall, insofar as consistent with existing contractual obligations and subject to all other legally enforceable claims or demands by or against the National Trust, pass to and become vested in the United States.

    (c)  __Sue and Be Sued__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

    (d)  __Corporate Seal__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal that shall be judicially noticed.

    (e)  __Constitution, Bylaws, and Regulations__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may adopt a constitution and prescribe such bylaws and regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or of any State, as it considers necessary for the administration of its functions under this chapter, including among other matters, bylaws and regulations governing visitation to historic properties, administration of corporate funds, and the organization and procedure of the Board.

    (f)  __Personal Property__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may accept, hold, and administer gifts and bequests of money, securities, or other personal property of any character, absolutely or in trust, for the purposes for which the National Trust is created. Unless otherwise restricted by the terms of a gift or bequest, the National Trust may sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of, and invest or reinvest in investments as it may determine from time to time, the moneys, securities, or other property given or bequeathed to it. The principal of corporate funds and the income from those funds and all other revenues received by the National Trust from any source shall be placed in such depositories as the National Trust shall determine and shall be subject to expenditure by the National Trust for its corporate purposes.

    (g)  __Real Property__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may acquire by gift, devise, purchase, or otherwise, absolutely or in trust, and hold and, unless otherwise restricted by the terms of the gift or devise, encumber, convey, or otherwise dispose of, any real property, or any estate or interest in real property (except property within the exterior boundaries of a System unit), as may be necessary and proper in carrying into effect the purposes of the National Trust.

    (h)  __Contracts and Cooperative Agreements Respecting Protection, Preservation, Maintenance, or Operation__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may contract and make cooperative agreements with Federal, State, or local agencies, corporations, associations, or individuals, under terms and conditions that the National Trust considers advisable, respecting the protection, preservation, maintenance, or operation of any historic site, building, object, or property used in connection with the site, building, object, or property for public use, regardless of whether the National Trust has acquired title to the property, or any interest in the property.

    (i)  __Enter Into Contracts and Execute Instruments__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may enter into contracts generally and execute all instruments necessary or appropriate to carry out its corporate purposes, including concession contracts, leases, or permits for the use of land, buildings, or other property considered desirable either to accommodate the public or to facilitate administration.

    (j)  __Officers, Agents, and Employees__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may appoint and prescribe the duties of officers, agents, and employees as may be necessary to carry out its functions, and fix and pay compensation to them for their services as the National Trust may determine.

    (k)  __Lawful Acts__  __.—__ 

    The National Trust may generally do any and all lawful acts necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes for which the National Trust is created.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3250][/us/stat/128/3250].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312105  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 468c  </td>

    <td> 

Oct. 26, 1949, ch. 735, § 4, 63 Stat. 928.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (h), the words “local agencies” are substituted for “municipal departments or agencies” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312105)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3250]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3250


