---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s312104

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312103.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312105.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312104)

## § 312104. Board of trustees

    (a)  __Membership__  __.—__ 

    The affairs of the National Trust shall be under the general direction of a board of trustees composed as follows:

        (1) The Attorney General, the Secretary, and the Director of the National Gallery of Art, ex officio.

        (2) Not fewer than 6 general trustees who shall be citizens of the United States.

    (b)  __Designation of Another Officer__  __.—__ 

    The Attorney General and the Secretary, when it appears desirable in the interest of the conduct of the business of the Board and to such extent as they consider it advisable, may, by written notice to the National Trust, designate any officer of their respective departments to act for them in the discharge of their duties as a member of the Board.

    (c) __General Trustees.—__ 

        (1)  __Number and selection__  __.—__ 

        The number of general trustees shall be fixed by the Board and shall be chosen by the members of the National Trust from its members at any regular meeting of the National Trust.

        (2)  __Term of office__  __.—__ 

        The respective terms of office of the general trustees shall be as prescribed by the Board but in no case shall exceed a period of 5 years from the date of election.

        (3)  __Successor__  __.—__ 

        A successor to a general trustee shall be chosen in the same manner and shall have a term expiring 5 years from the date of the expiration of the term for which the predecessor was chosen, except that a successor chosen to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of a term shall be chosen only for the remainder of that term.

    (d)  __Chairman__  __.—__ 

    The chairman of the Board shall be elected by a majority vote of the members of the Board.

    (e)  __Compensation and Reimbursement__  __.—__ 

    No compensation shall be paid to the members of the Board for their services as such members, but they shall be reimbursed for travel and actual expenses necessarily incurred by them in attending board meetings and performing other official duties on behalf of the National Trust at the direction of the Board.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3249][/us/stat/128/3249].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312104  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 468b.  </td>

    <td> 

Oct. 26, 1949, ch. 735, § 3, 63 Stat. 928; July 28, 1953, ch. 255, 67 Stat. 228.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312103.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3121/m__us_usc_t54_s312105.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312104)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3249]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3249


