---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2203/m__us_usc_t36_s220301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2203/m__us_usc_t36_s220303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220302)

## § 220302. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1) to encourage in the most comprehensive and enlightened manner an understanding by the American people of the founding, growth, and significance of the Capitol of the United States as the tangible symbol of their representative form of government;

    (2) to undertake research into the history of the Congress and the Capitol and to promote discussion, publication, and dissemination of the results of this research;

    (3) to foster and increase an informed patriotism among the citizens in the study of this living memorial to the founders of this Nation and the continuing thread of principles as exemplified by their successors; and

    (4) to cooperate with the standing committees of Congress, the Library of Congress, the Architect of the Capitol, and relevant departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the executive branch of the United States Government in carrying out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1463][/us/stat/112/1463].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220302  </td>

    <td> 

36:1203.  </td>

    <td> 

Oct. 20, 1978, Pub. L. 95–493, § 3, 92 Stat. 1643.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

    In clause (3), the words “among the citizens” are substituted for “of the land” for clarity.

    In clause (4), the words “departments, agencies, and instrumentalities” are substituted for “departments and agencies” for consistency in the revised title and with other titles of the United States Code.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2203/m__us_usc_t36_s220301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2203/m__us_usc_t36_s220303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220302)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1463]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1463


