---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s304102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs304102)

## § 304102. Duties of Council

    (a)  __Duties__  __.—__ 

    The Council shall—

        (1) advise the President and Congress on matters relating to historic preservation, recommend measures to coordinate activities of Federal, State, and local agencies and private institutions and individuals relating to historic preservation, and advise on the dissemination of information pertaining to those activities;

        (2) encourage, in cooperation with the National Trust and appropriate private agencies, public interest and participation in historic preservation;

        (3)

         recommend the conduct of studies in such areas as—

            (A) the adequacy of legislative and administrative statutes and regulations pertaining to historic preservation activities of State and local governments; and

            (B) the effects of tax policies at all levels of government on historic preservation;

        (4) advise as to guidelines for the assistance of State and local governments in drafting legislation relating to historic preservation;

        (5) encourage, in cooperation with appropriate public and private agencies and institutions, training and education in the field of historic preservation;

        (6) review the policies and programs of Federal agencies and recommend to Federal agencies methods to improve the effectiveness, coordination, and consistency of those policies and programs with the policies and programs carried out under this division; and

        (7) inform and educate Federal agencies, State and local governments, Indian tribes, other nations and international organizations and private groups and individuals as to the Council’s authorized activities.

    (b)  __Annual Report__  __.—__ 

    The Council annually shall submit to the President a comprehensive report of its activities and the results of its studies and shall from time to time submit additional and special reports as it deems advisable. Each report shall propose legislative enactments and other actions as, in the judgment of the Council, are necessary and appropriate to carry out its recommendations and shall provide the Council’s assessment of current and emerging problems in the field of historic preservation and an evaluation of the effectiveness of the programs of Federal agencies, State and local governments, and the private sector in carrying out this division.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3210][/us/stat/128/3210].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

304102  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470j  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title II, § 202, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 918; Pub. L. 96–515, title III, § 301(g), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2999.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs304102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3210]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3210


