---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s304101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3041.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs304101)

## § 304101. Establishment; vacancies

    (a)  __Establishment__  __.—__ 

    There is established as an independent agency of the United States Government an Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, which shall be composed of the following members:

        (1) A Chairman appointed by the President selected from the general public.

        (2) The Secretary.

        (3) The Architect of the Capitol.

        (4) The Secretary of Agriculture and the heads of 7 other agencies of the United States (other than the Department of the Interior), the activities of which affect historic preservation, designated by the President.

        (5) One Governor appointed by the President.

        (6) One mayor appointed by the President.

        (7) The President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers.

        (8) The Chairman of the National Trust.

        (9) Four experts in the field of historic preservation appointed by the President from architecture, history, archeology, and other appropriate disciplines.

        (10) Three members from the general public, appointed by the President.

        (11) One member of an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization who represents the interests of the Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization of which he or she is a member, appointed by the President.

    (b)  __Designation of Substitutes__  __.—__ 

    Each member of the Council specified in paragraphs (2) to (5), (7), and (8) of subsection (a) may designate another officer of the department, agency, or organization to serve on the Council instead of the member, except that, in the case of paragraphs (2) and (4), no officer other than an Assistant Secretary or an officer having major department-wide or agency-wide responsibilities may be designated.

    (c)  __Term of Office__  __.—__ 

    Each member of the Council appointed under paragraphs (1) and (9) to (11) of subsection (a) shall serve for a term of 4 years from the expiration of the term of the member’s predecessor. The members appointed under paragraphs (5) and (6) shall serve for the term of their elected office but not in excess of 4 years. An appointed member may not serve more than 2 terms. An appointed member whose term has expired shall serve until that member’s successor has been appointed.

    (d)  __Vacancies__  __.—__ 

    A vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled, not later than 60 days after the vacancy commences, in the same manner as the original appointment (and for the balance of the unexpired term).

    (e)  __Designation of Vice Chairman__  __.—__ 

    The President shall designate a Vice Chairman from the members appointed under paragraph (5), (6), (9), or (10) of subsection (a). The Vice Chairman may act in place of the Chairman during the absence or disability of the Chairman or when the office is vacant.

    (f)  __Quorum__  __.—__ 

    Twelve members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3209][/us/stat/128/3209].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

304101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470i  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title II, § 201, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 917; Pub. L. 91–243, § 1(b) through (e), May 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 204; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(c), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 94–422, title II, § 201(5), Sept. 28, 1976, 90 Stat. 1320; Pub. L. 96–515, title III, § 301(a) through (f), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2998; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, §§ 4016, 4019(b), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4763, 4765; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title V, § 509(c)(1), (2), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4157; Pub. L. 109–453, § 1(d), Dec. 22, 2006, 120 Stat. 3367.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(9), the words “the disciplines of” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3041.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3041/m__us_usc_t54_s304102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs304101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3209]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3209


