---
---

# 25 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t25/s4196

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t25/ch43/schVI/m__us_usc_t25_s4195.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t25/ch43/schVII/m__us_usc_t25_ch43_schVII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft25%2Fs4196)

## § 4196. Demonstration program for guaranteed loans to finance tribal community and economic development activities

    (a) __Authority__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            Subject to paragraph (2), to the extent and in such amounts as are provided in appropriation Acts, subject to the requirements of this section, and in accordance with such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may guarantee and make commitments to guarantee the notes and obligations issued by Indian tribes or tribally designated housing entities with tribal approval, for the purposes of financing activities carried out on Indian reservations and in other Indian areas that, under the first sentence of [section 5308(a) of title 42][/us/usc/t42/s5308/a], are eligible for financing with notes and other obligations guaranteed pursuant to that section.

        (2) __Limitation__ 

            The Secretary may guarantee, or make commitments to guarantee, under paragraph (1) the notes or obligations of not more than 4 Indian tribes or tribally designated housing entities located in each Department of Housing and Urban Development Office of Native American Programs region.

    (b) __Low-income benefit requirement__ 

        Not less than 70 percent of the aggregate amount received by an Indian tribe or tribally designated housing entity as a result of a guarantee under this section shall be used for the support of activities that benefit low-income families on Indian reservations and other Indian areas.

    (c) __Financial soundness__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            The Secretary shall establish underwriting criteria for guarantees under this section, including fees for the guarantees, as the Secretary determines to be necessary to ensure that the program under this section is financially sound.

        (2) __Amounts of fees__ 

            Fees for guarantees established under paragraph (1) shall be established in amounts that are sufficient, but do not exceed the minimum amounts necessary, to maintain a negative credit subsidy for the program under this section, as determined based on the risk to the Federal Government under the underwriting requirements established under paragraph (1).

    (d) __Terms of obligations__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            Each note or other obligation guaranteed pursuant to this section shall be in such form and denomination, have such maturity, and be subject to such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, by regulation.

        (2) __Limitation__ 

        The Secretary may not deny a guarantee under this section on the basis of the proposed repayment period for the note or other obligation, unless—

            (A) the period is more than 20 years; or

            (B) the Secretary determines that the period would cause the guarantee to constitute an unacceptable financial risk.

    (e) __Limitation on percentage__ 

        A guarantee made under this section shall guarantee repayment of 95 percent of the unpaid principal and interest due on the note or other obligation guaranteed.

    (f) __Security and repayment__ 

        (1) __Requirements on issuer__ 

        To ensure the repayment of notes and other obligations and charges incurred under this section and as a condition for receiving the guarantees, the Secretary shall require the Indian tribe or housing entity issuing the notes or obligations—

            (A) to enter into a contract, in a form acceptable to the Secretary, for repayment of notes or other obligations guaranteed under this section;

            (B) to demonstrate that the extent of each issuance and guarantee under this section is within the financial capacity of the Indian tribe; and

            (C) to furnish, at the discretion of the Secretary, such security as the Secretary determines to be appropriate in making the guarantees, including increments in local tax receipts generated by the activities assisted by a guarantee under this section or disposition proceeds from the sale of land or rehabilitated property, except that the security may not include any grant amounts received or for which the issuer may be eligible under subchapter I.

        (2) __Full faith and credit__ 

            (A) __In general__ 

                The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all guarantees made under this section.

            (B) __Treatment of guarantees__ 

                (i) __In general__ 

                    Any guarantee made by the Secretary under this section shall be conclusive evidence of the eligibility of the obligations for the guarantee with respect to principal and interest.

                (ii) __Incontestable nature__ 

                    The validity of any such a guarantee shall be incontestable in the hands of a holder of the guaranteed obligations.

    (g) __Training and information__ 

        The Secretary, in cooperation with Indian tribes and tribally designated housing entities, may carry out training and information activities with respect to the guarantee program under this section.

    (h) __Limitations on amount of guarantees__ 

        (1) __Aggregate fiscal year limitation__ 

            Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject only to the absence of qualified applicants or proposed activities and to the authority provided in this section, and to the extent approved or provided for in appropriations Acts, the Secretary may enter into commitments to guarantee notes and obligations under this section with an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.

        (2) __Authorization of appropriations for credit subsidy__ 

            There are authorized to be appropriated to cover the costs (as defined in [section 661a of title 2][/us/usc/t2/s661a]) of guarantees under this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2009 through 2013.

        (3) __Aggregate outstanding limitation__ 

            The total amount of outstanding obligations guaranteed on a cumulative basis by the Secretary pursuant to this section shall not at any time exceed $1,000,000,000 or such higher amount as may be authorized to be appropriated for this section for any fiscal year.

        (4) __Fiscal year limitations on Indian tribes__ 

            (A) __In general__ 

                The Secretary shall monitor the use of guarantees under this section by Indian tribes.

            (B) __Modifications__ 

            If the Secretary determines that 50 percent of the aggregate guarantee authority under paragraph (3) has been committed, the Secretary may—

                (i) impose limitations on the amount of guarantees pursuant to this section that any single Indian tribe may receive in any fiscal year of $25,000,000; or

                (ii) request the enactment of legislation increasing the aggregate outstanding limitation on guarantees under this section.

    (i) __Report__ 

    Not later than 4 years after October 14, 2008, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report describing the use of the authority under this section by Indian tribes and tribally designated housing entities, including—

        (1) an identification of the extent of the use and the types of projects and activities financed using that authority; and

        (2) an analysis of the effectiveness of the use in carrying out the purposes of this section.

    (j) __Termination__ 

        The authority of the Secretary under this section to make new guarantees for notes and obligations shall terminate on October 1, 2013.

([Pub. L. 104–330, title VI, § 606][/us/pl/104/330/s606], as added [Pub. L. 110–411, title VI, § 601(a)][/us/pl/110/411/s601/a], Oct. 14, 2008, [122 Stat. 4331][/us/stat/122/4331].)

 __Codification__ 

    Another [section 606 of Pub. L. 104–330][/us/pl/104/330/s606] is set out as an Effective Date note under [section 4191 of this title][/us/usc/t25/s4191].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t25/ch43/schVI/m__us_usc_t25_s4195.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t25/ch43/schVII/m__us_usc_t25_ch43_schVII.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft25%2Fs4196)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s5308/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs5308%2Fa
[/us/usc/t2/s661a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft2%2Fs661a
[/us/pl/104/330/s606]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F330%2Fs606
[/us/pl/110/411/s601/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F411%2Fs601%2Fa
[/us/stat/122/4331]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F122%2F4331
[/us/pl/104/330/s606]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F330%2Fs606
[/us/usc/t25/s4191]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft25%2Fs4191


