---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s220102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2201/m__us_usc_t36_s220101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2201/m__us_usc_t36_s220103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220102)

## § 220102. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1) to provide a voluntary civilian agency through which the people of this Nation may, in peace or war, serve the religious, spiritual, social, welfare, educational, and entertainment needs of men and women in the Armed Forces, within or without the territorial limits of the United States;

    (2) to contribute to the maintenance of morale of men and women in the Armed Forces;

    (3) to solicit funds to maintain the organization and accomplish its responsibility;

    (4) to accept the cooperation of, and provide an organization and means through which, the National Board of Young Men’s Christian Associations, the National Board of Young Women’s Christian Associations, the National Catholic Community Service, the Salvation Army, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the Travelers Aid-International Social Service of America, and other civilian agencies experienced in specialized types of related work, which may be needed adequately to meet the particular needs of the members of the Armed Forces, may carry on their historic work of serving the religious, spiritual, social, welfare, educational, and entertainment needs of men and women in the Armed Forces and be afforded an appropriate means of participation and financial assistance;

    (5) to coordinate their programs; and

    (6) other consonant purposes.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1459][/us/stat/112/1459].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

220102  </td>

    <td> 

36:1302.  </td>

    <td> 

Dec. 29, 1979, Pub. L. 96–165, § 2, 93 Stat. 1268.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

    In clause (4), the words “and to accept the cooperation of individual citizens in accomplishing its purposes” are omitted as unnecessary because of clause (1) of this section.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2201/m__us_usc_t36_s220101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2201/m__us_usc_t36_s220103.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs220102)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1459]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1459


