---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1535/m__us_usc_t36_s153501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1535/m__us_usc_t36_s153503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153502)

## § 153502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1) to establish, develop, operate, and maintain for the benefit of the people of the United States an educational and scientific center in the form of one or more tropical botanical gardens, together with facilities such as libraries, herbaria, laboratories, and museums that are appropriate and necessary for encouraging and conducting research in basic and applied tropical botany;

    (2) to foster and encourage fundamental research about tropical plant life and to encourage research and study of the uses of tropical flora in agriculture, forestry, horticulture, medicine, and other sciences;

    (3) to disseminate through publications and other media the knowledge about basic and applied tropical botany acquired at the gardens;

    (4) to collect and cultivate tropical flora of every nature and origin and to preserve for the people of the United States species of tropical plant life threatened with extinction; and

    (5) to provide a beneficial facility that will contribute to the education, instruction, and recreation of the people of the United States.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1425][/us/stat/112/1425].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153502  </td>

    <td> 

36:4603.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 19, 1964, Pub. L. 88–449, § 3, 78 Stat. 496.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the words “objects” is omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1535/m__us_usc_t36_s153501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1535/m__us_usc_t36_s153503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1425]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1425


