---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/s535a

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s535.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s536.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs535a)

##### § 535a. Termination of telephone service contracts

    (a) __Termination by servicemember__ 

        (1) __Termination__ 

            A servicemember may terminate a contract described in subsection (b) at any time after the date the servicemember receives military orders to relocate for a period of not less than 90 days to a location that does not support the contract.

        (2) __Notice__ 

            In the case that a servicemember terminates a contract as described in paragraph (1), the service provider under the contract shall provide such servicemember with written or electronic notice of the servicemember’s rights under such paragraph.

        (3) __Manner of termination__ 

            Termination of a contract under paragraph (1) shall be made by delivery of a written or electronic notice of such termination and a copy of the servicemember’s military orders to the service provider, delivered in accordance with industry standards for notification of terminations, together with the date on which the service is to be terminated.

    (b) __Covered contracts__ 

        A contract described in this subsection is a contract for cellular telephone service or telephone exchange service entered into by the servicemember before receiving the military orders referred to in subsection (a)(1).

    (c) __Retention of telephone number__ 

        In the case of a contract terminated under subsection (a) by a servicemember whose period of relocation is for a period of three years or less, the service provider under the contract shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, allow the servicemember to keep the telephone number the servicemember has under the contract if the servicemember re-subscribes to the service during the 90-day period beginning on the last day of such period of relocation.

    (d) __Family plans__ 

    In the case of a contract for cellular telephone service entered into by any individual in which a servicemember is a designated beneficiary of the contract, the individual who entered into the contract may terminate the contract—

        (1) with respect to the servicemember if the servicemember is eligible to terminate contracts pursuant to subsection (a); and

        (2) with respect to all of the designated beneficiaries of such contract if all such beneficiaries accompany the servicemember during the servicemember’s period of relocation.

    (e) __Other obligations and liabilities__ 

        For any contract terminated under this section, the service provider under the contract may not impose an early termination charge, but any tax or any other obligation or liability of the servicemember that, in accordance with the terms of the contract, is due and unpaid or unperformed at the time of termination of the contract shall be paid or performed by the servicemember. If the servicemember re-subscribes to the service provided under a covered contract during the 90-day period beginning on the last day of the servicemember’s period of relocation, the service provider may not impose a charge for reinstating service, other than the usual and customary charges for the installation or acquisition of customer equipment imposed on any other subscriber.

    (f) __Return of advance payments__ 

        Not later than 60 days after the effective date of the termination of a contract under this section, the service provider under the contract shall refund to the servicemember any fee or other amount to the extent paid for a period extending until after such date, except for the remainder of the monthly or similar billing period in which the termination occurs.

    (g) __Definitions__ 

    For purposes of this section:

        (1) The term “cellular telephone service” means commercial mobile service, as that term is defined in section 332(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 332(d)][/us/usc/t47/s332/d]).

        (2) The term “telephone exchange service” has the meaning given that term under section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 ([47 U.S.C. 153][/us/usc/t47/s153]).

([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888][/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888], title III, § 305A, as added [Pub. L. 110–389, title VIII, § 805(a)][/us/pl/110/389/s805/a], Oct. 10, 2008, [122 Stat. 4188][/us/stat/122/4188]; amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 302(a)][/us/pl/111/275/s302/a], Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2875][/us/stat/124/2875].)

 __Amendments__ 

    2010—[Pub. L. 111–275][/us/pl/111/275] amended section generally, substituting provisions relating to termination of telephone service contracts for provisions relating to termination or suspension of contracts for cellular telephone service.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s535.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s536.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs535a)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t47/s332/d]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft47%2Fs332%2Fd
[/us/usc/t47/s153]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft47%2Fs153
[/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888
[/us/pl/110/389/s805/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F389%2Fs805%2Fa
[/us/stat/122/4188]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F122%2F4188
[/us/pl/111/275/s302/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F275%2Fs302%2Fa
[/us/stat/124/2875]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F2875
[/us/pl/111/275]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F275


