---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/s531

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_tIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s532.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs531)

##### § 531. Evictions and distress

    (a) __Court-ordered eviction__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

        Except by court order, a landlord (or another person with paramount title) may not—

            (A)

             evict a servicemember, or the dependents of a servicemember, during a period of military service of the servicemember, from premises—

                (i) that are occupied or intended to be occupied primarily as a residence; and

                (ii) for which the monthly rent does not exceed $2,400, as adjusted under paragraph (2) for years after 2003; or

            (B) subject such premises to a distress during the period of military service.

        (2) __Housing price inflation adjustment__ 

            (A) For calendar years beginning with 2004, the amount in effect under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) shall be increased by the housing price inflation adjustment for the calendar year involved.

            (B)

             For purposes of this paragraph—

                (i)

                 The housing price inflation adjustment for any calendar year is the percentage change (if any) by which—

                    (I) the CPI housing component for November of the preceding calendar year, exceeds

                    (II) the CPI housing component for November of 1984.

                (ii) The term “CPI housing component” means the index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor known as the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, Rent of Primary Residence, U.S. City Average.

        (3) __Publication of housing price inflation adjustment__ 

            The Secretary of Defense shall cause to be published in the Federal Register each year the amount in effect under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) for that year following the housing price inflation adjustment for that year pursuant to paragraph (2). Such publication shall be made for a year not later than 60 days after such adjustment is made for that year.

    (b) __Stay of execution__ 

        (1) __Court authority__ 

        Upon an application for eviction or distress with respect to premises covered by this section, the court may on its own motion and shall, if a request is made by or on behalf of a servicemember whose ability to pay the agreed rent is materially affected by military service—

            (A) stay the proceedings for a period of 90 days, unless in the opinion of the court, justice and equity require a longer or shorter period of time; or

            (B) adjust the obligation under the lease to preserve the interests of all parties.

        (2) __Relief to landlord__ 

            If a stay is granted under paragraph (1), the court may grant to the landlord (or other person with paramount title) such relief as equity may require.

    (c) __Misdemeanor__ 

        Except as provided in subsection (a), a person who knowingly takes part in an eviction or distress described in subsection (a), or who knowingly attempts to do so, shall be fined as provided in title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.

    (d) __Rent allotment from pay of servicemember__ 

        To the extent required by a court order related to property which is the subject of a court action under this section, the Secretary concerned shall make an allotment from the pay of a servicemember to satisfy the terms of such order, except that any such allotment shall be subject to regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned establishing the maximum amount of pay of servicemembers that may be allotted under this subsection.

    (e) __Limitation of applicability__ 

        Section 202 \[section 522 of this Appendix\] is not applicable to this section.

([Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888][/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888], title III, § 301, as added [Pub. L. 108–189, § 1][/us/pl/108/189/s1], Dec. 19, 2003, [117 Stat. 2845][/us/stat/117/2845]; amended [Pub. L. 111–275, title III, § 303(b)(2)][/us/pl/111/275/s303/b/2], Oct. 13, 2010, [124 Stat. 2877][/us/stat/124/2877].)

 __Prior Provisions__ 

    A prior section 531, acts [Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 888][/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888], art. III, § 301, [54 Stat. 1182][/us/stat/54/1182]; [Oct. 6, 1942, ch. 581, § 9(a)][/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581/s9/a], (c), (d), [56 Stat. 771][/us/stat/56/771]; [Pub. L. 102–12, § 9(9)][/us/pl/102/12/s9/9], Mar. 18, 1991, [105 Stat. 40][/us/stat/105/40], related to installment contracts for purchase of property, prior to the general amendment of this Act by [Pub. L. 108–189][/us/pl/108/189]. See section 532 of this Appendix.

 __Amendments__ 

    2010—Subsec. (c). [Pub. L. 111–275][/us/pl/111/275] amended subsec. (c) generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) related to penalties.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_tIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1940-10-17/ch888/tIII/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1940-10-17_ch888_s532.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888%2Fs531)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888
[/us/pl/108/189/s1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F189%2Fs1
[/us/stat/117/2845]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F117%2F2845
[/us/pl/111/275/s303/b/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F275%2Fs303%2Fb%2F2
[/us/stat/124/2877]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F124%2F2877
[/us/act/1940-10-17/ch888]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1940-10-17%2Fch888
[/us/stat/54/1182]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F54%2F1182
[/us/act/1942-10-06/ch581/s9/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1942-10-06%2Fch581%2Fs9%2Fa
[/us/stat/56/771]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F56%2F771
[/us/pl/102/12/s9/9]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F12%2Fs9%2F9
[/us/stat/105/40]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F105%2F40
[/us/pl/108/189]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F189
[/us/pl/111/275]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F111%2F275


