---
---

# 10 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t10/s2924

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch173/schIII/m__us_usc_t10_stA_ptIV_ch173_schIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch173/schIII/m__us_usc_t10_s2925.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs2924)

## § 2924. Definitions

In this chapter:

    (1)

     The term “defined fuel source” means any of the following:

        (A) Petroleum.

        (B) Natural gas.

        (C) Coal.

        (D) Coke.

    (2)

     The term “energy-efficient maintenance” includes—

        (A)

         the repair of military vehicles, equipment, or facility and infrastructure systems, such as lighting, heating, or cooling equipment or systems, or industrial processes, by replacement with technology that—

            (i) will achieve energy savings over the life-cycle of the equipment or system being repaired; and

            (ii) will meet the same end needs as the equipment or system being repaired; and

        (B) improvements in an operation or maintenance process, such as improved training or improved controls, that result in energy savings.

    (3)

        (A) The term “energy security” means having assured access to reliable supplies of energy and the ability to protect and deliver sufficient energy to meet mission essential requirements.

        (B) In selecting facility energy projects that will use renewable energy sources, pursuit of energy security means the installation will give favorable consideration to projects that provide power directly to a military facility or into the installation electrical distribution network. In such cases, projects should be prioritized to provide power for assets critical to mission essential requirements on the installation in the event of a disruption in the commercial grid.

    (4)

     The term “hybrid”, with respect to a motor vehicle, means a motor vehicle that draws propulsion energy from onboard sources of stored energy that are both—

        (A) an internal combustion or heat engine using combustible fuel; and

        (B) a rechargeable energy storage system.

    (5) The term “operational energy” means the energy required for training, moving, and sustaining military forces and weapons platforms for military operations. The term includes energy used by tactical power systems and generators and weapons platforms.

    (6) The term “petroleum” means natural or synthetic crude, blends of natural or synthetic crude, and products refined or derived from natural or synthetic crude or from such blends.

    (7)

     The term “renewable energy source” means energy generated from renewable sources, including the following:

        (A) Solar, including electricity.

        (B) Wind.

        (C) Biomass.

        (D) Landfill gas.

        (E) Ocean, including tidal, wave, current, and thermal.

        (F) Geothermal, including electricity and heat pumps.

        (G) Municipal solid waste.

        (H) New hydroelectric generation capacity achieved from increased efficiency or additions of new capacity at an existing hydroelectric project. For purposes of this subparagraph, hydroelectric generation capacity is “new” if it was placed in service on or after January 1, 1999.

        (I) Thermal energy generated by any of the preceding sources.

(Added [Pub. L. 112–81, div. B, title XXVIII, § 2821(a)(1)][/us/pl/112/81/s2821/a/1], Dec. 31, 2011, [125 Stat. 1689][/us/stat/125/1689].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch173/schIII/m__us_usc_t10_stA_ptIV_ch173_schIII.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t10/stA/ptIV/ch173/schIII/m__us_usc_t10_s2925.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft10%2Fs2924)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/112/81/s2821/a/1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F112%2F81%2Fs2821%2Fa%2F1
[/us/stat/125/1689]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F125%2F1689


