---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302105

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302105)

## § 302105. Owner participation in nomination process

    (a)  __Regulations__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall promulgate regulations requiring that before any property may be included on the National Register or designated as a National Historic Landmark, the owner of the property, or a majority of the owners of the individual properties within a district in the case of a historic district, shall be given the opportunity (including a reasonable period of time) to concur in, or object to, the nomination of the property for inclusion or designation. The regulations shall include provisions to carry out this section in the case of multiple ownership of a single property.

    (b)  __When Property Shall Not Be Included on National Register or Designated as National Historic Landmark__  __.—__ 

    If the owner of any privately owned property, or a majority of the owners of privately owned properties within the district in the case of a historic district, object to inclusion or designation, the property shall not be included on the National Register or designated as a National Historic Landmark until the objection is withdrawn.

    (c)  __Review by Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall review the nomination of the property when an objection has been made and shall determine whether or not the property is eligible for inclusion or designation. If the Secretary determines that the property is eligible for inclusion or designation, the Secretary shall inform the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, the appropriate chief elected local official, and the owner or owners of the property of the Secretary’s determination.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3193][/us/stat/128/3193].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302105(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(6) (1st, last sentences).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(a)(6), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2989.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302105(b)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(6) (2d sentence).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302105(c)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(6) (3d sentence).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302104.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302106.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302105)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3193]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3193


