---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3021.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302101)

## § 302101. Maintenance by Secretary

    The Secretary may expand and maintain a National Register of Historic Places composed of districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects significant in American history, architecture, archeology, engineering, and culture.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3191][/us/stat/128/3191].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(a)(1)(A) (1st sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(a)(1)(A) (1st sentence), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2988.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

 __Recovery of Fees for Review Services for Historic Preservation Tax Certification__ 

[Pub. L. 106–113, div. B, § 1000(a)(3)][/us/pl/106/113/s1000/a/3] \[title I\], Nov. 29, 1999, [113 Stat. 1535][/us/stat/113/1535], 1501A–142, provided in part: 

> “That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the National Park Service may hereafter recover all fees derived from providing necessary review services associated with historic preservation tax certification, and such funds shall be available until expended without further appropriation for the costs of such review services”.

 __Historically Black Colleges and Universities Historic Building Restoration and Preservation__ 

[Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title V, § 507][/us/pl/104/333/s507], Nov. 12, 1996, [110 Stat. 4156][/us/stat/110/4156], as amended by [Pub. L. 108–7, div. F, title I, § 150][/us/pl/108/7/s150], Feb. 20, 2003, [117 Stat. 245][/us/stat/117/245], provided that:

>     “(a)  __Authority To Make Grants__  __.—__ 

>     From the amounts made available to carry out the National Historic Preservation Act \[see [54 U.S.C. 300101][/us/usc/t54/s300101] et seq.\], the Secretary of the Interior shall make grants in accordance with this section to eligible historically black colleges and universities for the preservation and restoration of historic buildings and structures on the campus of these institutions.

>     “(b)  __Grant Conditions__  __.—__ 

>     Grants made under subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the grantee covenants, for the period of time specified by the Secretary, that—

>         “(1) no alteration will be made in the property with respect to which the grant is made without the concurrence of the Secretary; and

>         “(2) reasonable public access to the property with respect to which the grant is made will be permitted by the grantee for interpretive and educational purposes.

>     “(c)  __Matching Requirement for Buildings and Structures Listed on the National Register of Historic Places__  __.—__ 

>         “(1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

>         Except as provided by paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary may obligate funds made available under this section for a grant with respect to a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places only if the grantee agrees to match, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, the amount of the grant with an amount that is equal or greater than the grant.

>         “(2)  __Waiver__  __.—__ 

>         The Secretary may waive paragraphs (1) and (3) with respect to a grant if the Secretary determines from circumstances that an extreme emergency exists or that such a waiver is in the public interest to assure the preservation of historically significant resources.

>         “(3)  __Exception__  __.—__ 

>         The Secretary shall not obligate funds made available under subsection (d)(2) for a grant with respect to a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places unless the grantee agrees to provide, from funds derived from non-Federal sources, an amount that is equal to 30 percent of the total cost of the project for which the grant is provided.

>     “(d)  __Funding Provision__  __.—__ 

>         “(1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

>         Under section 108 of the National Historic Preservation Act \[see [54 U.S.C. 303101][/us/usc/t54/s303101] to 303103\], $29,000,000 shall be made available to carry out the purposes of this section. Of amounts made available pursuant to this section, $5,000,000 shall be available for grants to Fisk University, $2,500,000 shall be available for grants to Knoxville College, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to Miles College, Alabama, $1,500,000 shall be available for grants to Talladega College, Alabama, $1,550,000 shall be available for grants to Selma University, Alabama, $250,000 shall be available for grants to Stillman College, Alabama, $200,000 shall be available for grants to Concordia College, Alabama, $2,900,000 shall be available for grants to Allen University, South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for grants to Claflin College, South Carolina, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to Voorhees College, South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for grants to Rust College, Mississippi, and $3,000,000 shall be available for grants to Tougaloo College, Mississippi.

>         “(2)  __Additional funding__  __.—__ 

>         In addition to amounts made available under paragraph (1), there is authorized to be appropriated from the Historic Preservation Fund to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2003 through 2008.

>     “(e)  __Regulations__  __.—__ 

>     The Secretary shall develop such guidelines as may be necessary to carry out this section.

>     “(f)  __Definitions__  __.—__ 

>     For the purposes of this section:

>         “(1)  __Historically black colleges__  __.—__ 

>         The term ‘historically black colleges and universities’ has the same meaning given the term ‘part B institution’ by section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ([20 U.S.C. 1061][/us/usc/t20/s1061]).

>         “(2)  __Historic building and structures__  __.—__ 

>         The term ‘historic building and structures’ means a building or structure listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places or designated a National Historic Landmark.”

 __Recommendations of Historic Properties for Preservation__ 

[Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4021][/us/pl/102/575/s4021], Oct. 30, 1992, [106 Stat. 4765][/us/stat/106/4765], provided that: 

> “The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Advisory Council, shall seek to ensure that historic properties preserved under the National Historic Preservation Act \[see [54 U.S.C. 300101][/us/usc/t54/s300101] et seq.\] fully reflect the historical experience of this nation.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3021.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3021/m__us_usc_t54_s302102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3191]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3191
[/us/pl/106/113/s1000/a/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F106%2F113%2Fs1000%2Fa%2F3
[/us/stat/113/1535]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F113%2F1535
[/us/pl/104/333/s507]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F333%2Fs507
[/us/stat/110/4156]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F110%2F4156
[/us/pl/108/7/s150]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F7%2Fs150
[/us/stat/117/245]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F117%2F245
[/us/usc/t54/s300101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs300101
[/us/usc/t54/s303101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs303101
[/us/usc/t20/s1061]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft20%2Fs1061
[/us/pl/102/575/s4021]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F575%2Fs4021
[/us/stat/106/4765]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F106%2F4765
[/us/usc/t54/s300101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs300101


