---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s2021d

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021c.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021e.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d)

## § 2021d. Regional compacts for disposal of low-level radioactive waste

    (a) __In general__ 

        (1) __Federal policy__ 

            It is the policy of the Federal Government that the responsibilities of the States under [section 2021c of this title][/us/usc/t42/s2021c] for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste can be most safely and effectively managed on a regional basis.

        (2) __Interstate compacts__ 

            To carry out the policy set forth in paragraph (1), the States may enter into such compacts as may be necessary to provide for the establishment and operation of regional disposal facilities for low-level radioactive waste.

    (b) __Applicability to Federal activities__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            (A) __Activities of the Secretary__ 

                Except as provided in subparagraph (B), no compact or action taken under a compact shall be applicable to the transportation, management, or disposal of any low-level radioactive waste designated in section 2021c(a)(1)(B)(i)–(iii) of this title.

            (B) __Federal low-level radioactive waste disposed of at non-Federal facilities__ 

                Low-level radioactive waste owned or generated by the Federal Government that is disposed of at a regional disposal facility or non-Federal disposal facility within a State that is not a member of a compact shall be subject to the same conditions, regulations, requirements, fees, taxes, and surcharges imposed by the compact commission, and by the State in which such facility is located, in the same manner and to the same extent as any low-level radioactive waste not generated by the Federal Government.

        (2) __Federal low-level radioactive waste disposal facilities__ 

            Any low-level radioactive waste disposal facility established or operated exclusively for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste owned or generated by the Federal Government shall not be subject to any compact or any action taken under a compact.

        (3) __Effect of compacts on Federal law__ 

        Nothing contained in sections 2021b to 2021j of this title or any compact may be construed to confer any new authority on any compact commission or State—

            (A) to regulate the packaging, generation, treatment, storage, disposal, or transportation of low-level radioactive waste in a manner incompatible with the regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or inconsistent with the regulations of the Department of Transportation;

            (B) to regulate health, safety, or environmental hazards from source material, byproduct material, or special nuclear material;

            (C) to inspect the facilities of licensees of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;

            (D) to inspect security areas or operations at the site of the generation of any low-level radioactive waste by the Federal Government, or to inspect classified information related to such areas or operations; or

            (E) to require indemnification pursuant to the provisions of chapter 171 of title 28 (commonly referred to as the Federal Tort Claims Act), or [section 2210 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s2210], whichever is applicable.

        (4) __Federal authority__ 

            Except as expressly provided in sections 2021b to 2021j of this title, nothing contained in sections 2021b to 2021j of this title or any compact may be construed to limit the applicability of any Federal law or to diminish or otherwise impair the jurisdiction of any Federal agency, or to alter, amend, or otherwise affect any Federal law governing the judicial review of any action taken pursuant to any compact.

        (5) __State authority preserved__ 

            Except as expressly provided in sections 2021b to 2021j of this title, nothing contained in sections 2021b to 2021j of this title expands, diminishes, or otherwise affects State law.

    (c) __Restricted use of regional disposal facilities__ 

    Any authority in a compact to restrict the use of the regional disposal facilities under the compact to the disposal of low-level radioactive waste generated within the compact region shall not take effect before each of the following occurs:

        (1) January 1, 1986; and

        (2) the Congress by law consents to the compact.

    (d) __Congressional review__ 

        Each compact shall provide that every 5 years after the compact has taken effect the Congress may by law withdraw its consent.

([Pub. L. 96–573, § 4][/us/pl/96/573/s4], as added [Pub. L. 99–240, title I, § 102][/us/pl/99/240/s102], Jan. 15, 1986, [99 Stat. 1845][/us/stat/99/1845].)

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

 __Prior Provisions__ 

    A prior section 2021d, [Pub. L. 96–573, § 4][/us/pl/96/573/s4], Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3348][/us/stat/94/3348], related to policy of Federal Government concerning low-level radioactive waste disposal, implementation of that policy, and a report to Congress and the States to assist in carrying out the policy, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–240, § 102][/us/pl/99/240/s102].

 __Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act__ 

[Pub. L. 105–236][/us/pl/105/236], Sept. 20, 1998, [112 Stat. 1542][/us/stat/112/1542], provided that:

> “SECTION 1. __SHORT TITLE.__ 

>     “This Act may be cited as the ‘Texas Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act’.

> “SEC. 2. __CONGRESSIONAL FINDING.__ 

>     “The Congress finds that the compact set forth in section 5 is in furtherance of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021b][/us/usc/t42/s2021b] et seq.).

> “SEC. 3. __CONDITIONS OF CONSENT TO COMPACT.__ 

> “The consent of the Congress to the compact set forth in section 5—

>     “(1) shall become effective on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Sept. 20, 1998\];

>     “(2) is granted subject to the provisions of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021b][/us/usc/t42/s2021b] et seq.); and

>     “(3) is granted only for so long as the regional commission established in the compact complies with all of the provisions of such Act.

> “SEC. 4. __CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW.__ 

>     “The Congress may alter, amend, or repeal this Act with respect to the compact set forth in section 5 after the expiration of the 10-year period following the date of the enactment of this Act \[Sept. 20, 1998\], and at such intervals thereafter as may be provided in such compact.

> “SEC. 5. __TEXAS LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “(a) __Consent of Congress.—__ 

>     In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]), the consent of Congress is given to the States of Texas, Maine, and Vermont to enter into the compact set forth in subsection (b).

>     “(b) __Text of Compact.—__ 

>     The compact reads substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [112 Stat. 1543][/us/stat/112/1543]\]”.

 __Southwestern Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act__ 

[Pub. L. 100–712][/us/pl/100/712], Nov. 23, 1988, [102 Stat. 4773][/us/stat/102/4773], provided that:

> “SECTION 1. __SHORT TITLE.__ 

>     “This Act may be cited as the ‘Southwestern Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact Consent Act’\[.\]

> “SEC. 2. __CONGRESSIONAL FINDING.__ 

>     “The Congress finds that the compact set forth in section 5 is in furtherance of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\].

> “SEC. 3. __CONDITIONS OF CONSENT TO COMPACT.__ 

> “The consent of the Congress to the compact set forth in section 5—

>     “(1) shall become effective on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Nov. 23, 1988\];

>     “(2) is granted subject to the provisions of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\]; and

>     “(3) is granted only for so long as the regional commission established in the compact complies with all of the provisions of such Act.

> “SEC. 4. __CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW.__ 

>     “The Congress may alter, amend, or repeal this Act with respect to the compact set forth in section 5 after the expiration of the 10-year period following the date of enactment of this Act \[Nov. 23, 1988\], and at such intervals thereafter as may be provided in such compact.

> “SEC. 5. __SOUTHWESTERN LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]), the consent of Congress is given to the states of Arizona, California, and any eligible states, as defined in article VII of the Southwestern Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Compact, to enter into such compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [102 Stat. 4773][/us/stat/102/4773]\]”.

 __Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Consent Act__ 

[Pub. L. 100–319][/us/pl/100/319], May 19, 1988, [102 Stat. 471][/us/stat/102/471], provided that:

> “SECTION 1. __SHORT TITLE.__ 

>     “This Act may be cited as the ‘Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact Consent Act’.

> “SEC. 2. __CONGRESSIONAL FINDING.__ 

>     “The Congress finds that the compact set forth in section 5 is in furtherance of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\].

> “SEC. 3. __CONDITIONS OF CONSENT TO COMPACT.__ 

> “The consent of the Congress to the compact set forth in section 5—

>     “(1) shall become effective on the date of the enactment of this Act \[May 19, 1988\],

>     “(2) is granted subject to the provisions of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\], and

>     “(3) is granted only for so long as the Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission, advisory committees, and regional boards established in the compact comply with all the provisions of such Act.

> “SEC. 4. __CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW.__ 

>     “The Congress may alter, amend, or repeal this Act with respect to the compact set forth in section 5 after the expiration of the 10-year period following the date of the enactment of this Act \[May 19, 1988\], and at such intervals thereafter as may be provided for in such compact.

> “SEC. 5. __APPALACHIAN STATES LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(A)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/A/2] \[[42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]\]), the consent of Congress is given to the States of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and any eligible States as defined in Article 5(A) of the Appalachian States Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact to enter into such compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [102 Stat. 471][/us/stat/102/471]\]”.

 __Omnibus Low-Level Radioactive Waste Interstate Compact Consent Act__ 

[Pub. L. 99–240, title II][/us/pl/99/240], Jan. 15, 1986, [99 Stat. 1859][/us/stat/99/1859], provided that:

> “SEC. 201. __SHORT TITLE.__ 

>     “This Title may be cited as the ‘Omnibus Low-Level Radioactive Waste Interstate Compact Consent Act’.

> “Subtitle A— __General Provisions__ 

> “SEC. 211. __CONGRESSIONAL FINDING.__ 

>     “The Congress hereby finds that each of the compacts set forth in subtitle B is in furtherance of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\].

> “SEC. 212. __CONDITIONS OF CONSENT TO COMPACTS.__ 

> “The consent of the Congress to each of the compacts set forth in subtitle B—

>     “(1) shall become effective on the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 15, 1986\];

>     “(2) is granted subject to the provisions of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act, as amended \[[42 U.S.C. 2021b–202][/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]1j\]; and

>     “(3) is granted only for so long as the regional commission, committee, or board established in the compact complies with all of the provisions of such Act.

> “SEC. 213. __CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW.__ 

>     “The Congress may alter, amend, or repeal this Act with respect to any compact set forth in subtitle B after the expiration of the 10-year period following the date of the enactment of this Act \[Jan. 15, 1986\], and at such intervals thereafter as may be provided in such compact.

> “Subtitle B— __Congressional Consent to Compacts__ 

> “SEC. 221. __NORTHWEST INTERSTATE COMPACT ON LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT.__ 

>     “The consent of Congress is hereby given to the states of Alaska, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming to enter into the Northwest Interstate Compact on Low-level Radioactive Waste Management, and to each and every part and article thereof. Such compact reads substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1860][/us/stat/99/1860].\]

> “SEC. 222. __CENTRAL INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “The consent of Congress is hereby given to the states of Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, and Oklahoma to enter into the Central Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact, and to each and every part and article thereof. Such compact reads substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1863][/us/stat/99/1863].\]

> “SEC. 223. __SOUTHEAST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]), the consent of the Congress is hereby given to the States of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia to enter into the Southeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1871][/us/stat/99/1871]; [103 Stat. 1289][/us/stat/103/1289].\]

> “SEC. 224. __CENTRAL MIDWEST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]), the consent of the Congress hereby is given to the States of Illinois and Kentucky to enter into the Central Midwest Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1880][/us/stat/99/1880]; [108 Stat. 4607][/us/stat/108/4607].\]

> “SEC. 225. __MIDWEST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPACT.__ 

>     “The consent of Congress is hereby given to the States of Iowa, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, and Wisconsin to enter into the Midwest Interstate Compact on Low-level Radioactive Waste Management. Such compact is as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1892][/us/stat/99/1892].\]

> “SEC. 226. __ROCKY MOUNTAIN LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act ([42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]), the consent of the Congress hereby is given to the States of Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming to enter into the Rocky Mountain Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1902][/us/stat/99/1902].\]

> “SEC. 227. __NORTHEAST INTERSTATE LOW-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPACT.__ 

>     “In accordance with section 4(a)(2) of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act \[[42 U.S.C. 2021d(a)(2)][/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]\], the consent of the Congress is hereby given to the States of Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, and Maryland to enter into the Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Management Compact. Such compact is substantially as follows: \[Text of compact appears at [99 Stat. 1910][/us/stat/99/1910].\].”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021c.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021e.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s2021c]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021c
[/us/usc/t42/s2210]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2210
[/us/pl/96/573/s4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F573%2Fs4
[/us/pl/99/240/s102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240%2Fs102
[/us/stat/99/1845]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1845
[/us/pl/96/573/s4]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F573%2Fs4
[/us/stat/94/3348]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F94%2F3348
[/us/pl/99/240/s102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240%2Fs102
[/us/pl/105/236]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F236
[/us/stat/112/1542]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1542
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/112/1543]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1543
[/us/pl/100/712]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F100%2F712
[/us/stat/102/4773]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F102%2F4773
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/102/4773]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F102%2F4773
[/us/pl/100/319]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F100%2F319
[/us/stat/102/471]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F102%2F471
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/A/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2FA%2F2
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/102/471]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F102%2F471
[/us/pl/99/240]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240
[/us/stat/99/1859]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1859
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/usc/t42/s2021b–202]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021b%E2%80%93202
[/us/stat/99/1860]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1860
[/us/stat/99/1863]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1863
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/99/1871]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1871
[/us/stat/103/1289]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F103%2F1289
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/99/1880]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1880
[/us/stat/108/4607]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F108%2F4607
[/us/stat/99/1892]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1892
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/99/1902]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1902
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d/a/2]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d%2Fa%2F2
[/us/stat/99/1910]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1910


