---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s2021c

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021d.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021c)

## § 2021c. Responsibilities for disposal of low-level radioactive waste

    (a)

        (1)

         Each State shall be responsible for providing, either by itself or in cooperation with other States, for the disposal of—

            (A) low-level radioactive waste generated within the State (other than by the Federal Government) that consists of or contains class A, B, or C radioactive waste as defined by section 61.55 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 26, 1983;

            (B)

             low-level radioactive waste described in subparagraph (A) that is generated by the Federal Government except such waste that is—

                (i) owned or generated by the Department of Energy;

                (ii) owned or generated by the United States Navy as a result of the decommissioning of vessels of the United States Navy; or

                (iii) owned or generated as a result of any research, development, testing, or production of any atomic weapon; and

            (C) low-level radioactive waste described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) that is generated outside of the State and accepted for disposal in accordance with sections  <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 So in original. Probably should be “section”. </sup></sup>  2021e or 2021f of this title.

        (2)

         No regional disposal facility may be required to accept for disposal any material—

            (A) that is not low-level radioactive waste as defined by section 61.55 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 26, 1983, or

            (B) identified under the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program.

            Nothing in this paragraph shall be deemed to prohibit a State, subject to the provisions of its compact, or a compact region from accepting for disposal any material identified in subparagraph (A) or (B).

    (b)

        (1)

         The Federal Government shall be responsible for the disposal of—

            (A) low-level radioactive waste owned or generated by the Department of Energy;

            (B) low-level radioactive waste owned or generated by the United States Navy as a result of the decommissioning of vessels of the United States Navy;

            (C) low-level radioactive waste owned or generated by the Federal Government as a result of any research, development, testing, or production of any atomic weapon; and

            (D) any other low-level radioactive waste with concentrations of radionuclides that exceed the limits established by the Commission for class C radioactive waste, as defined by section 61.55 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 26, 1983.

        (2) All radioactive waste designated a Federal responsibility pursuant to subparagraph (b)(1)(D) that results from activities licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, shall be disposed of in a facility licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission that the Commission determines is adequate to protect the public health and safety.

        (3)

         Not later than 12 months after January 15, 1986, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a comprehensive report setting forth the recommendations of the Secretary for ensuring the safe disposal of all radioactive waste designated a Federal responsibility pursuant to subparagraph (b)(1)(D). Such report shall include—

            (A) an identification of the radioactive waste involved, including the source of such waste, and the volume, concentration, and other relevant characteristics of such waste;

            (B) an identification of the Federal and non-Federal options for disposal of such radioactive waste;

            (C) a description of the actions proposed to ensure the safe disposal of such radioactive waste;

            (D) a description of the projected costs of undertaking such actions;

            (E) an identification of the options for ensuring that the beneficiaries of the activities resulting in the generation of such radioactive wastes bear all reasonable costs of disposing of such wastes; and

            (F) an identification of any statutory authority required for disposal of such waste.

        (4) The Secretary may not dispose of any radioactive waste designated a Federal responsibility pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(D) that becomes a Federal responsibility for the first time pursuant to such paragraph until ninety days after the report prepared pursuant to paragraph (3) has been submitted to the Congress.

([Pub. L. 96–573, § 3][/us/pl/96/573/s3], as added [Pub. L. 99–240, title I, § 102][/us/pl/99/240/s102], Jan. 15, 1986, [99 Stat. 1843][/us/stat/99/1843].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, referred to in subsec. (b)(2), is [act Aug. 1, 1946, ch. 724][/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724], as added by [act Aug. 30, 1954, ch. 1073, § 1][/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1], [68 Stat. 921][/us/stat/68/921], which is classified generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under [section 2011 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s2011] and Tables.

    January 15, 1986, referred to in subsec. (b)(3), was in the original “the date of enactment of this Act” and was translated as meaning the date of enactment of [Pub. L. 99–240][/us/pl/99/240] to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

 __Prior Provisions__ 

    A prior section 2021c, [Pub. L. 96–573, § 3][/us/pl/96/573/s3], Dec. 22, 1980, [94 Stat. 3347][/us/stat/94/3347], related to the applicability of low-level radioactive waste compacts, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 99–240, § 102][/us/pl/99/240/s102]. See [section 2021d of this title][/us/usc/t42/s2021d].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dA/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s2021d.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021c)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/96/573/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F573%2Fs3
[/us/pl/99/240/s102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240%2Fs102
[/us/stat/99/1843]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F99%2F1843
[/us/act/1946-08-01/ch724]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1946-08-01%2Fch724
[/us/act/1954-08-30/ch1073/s1]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1954-08-30%2Fch1073%2Fs1
[/us/stat/68/921]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F68%2F921
[/us/usc/t42/s2011]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2011
[/us/pl/99/240]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240
[/us/pl/96/573/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F96%2F573%2Fs3
[/us/stat/94/3347]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F94%2F3347
[/us/pl/99/240/s102]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F99%2F240%2Fs102
[/us/usc/t42/s2021d]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2021d


