---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s2297h–11

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–10b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–12.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%9311)

## § 2297h–11. Low-level waste

    (a) __Responsibility of DOE__ 

        (1)

         The Secretary, at the request of the generator, shall accept for disposal low-level radioactive waste, including depleted uranium if it were ultimately determined to be low-level radioactive waste, generated by—

            (A) the Corporation as a result of the operations of the gaseous diffusion plants or as a result of the treatment of such wastes at a location other than the gaseous diffusion plants, or

            (B) any person licensed by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to operate a uranium enrichment facility under sections 2073, 2093, and 2243 of this title.

        (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), the generator shall reimburse the Secretary for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste pursuant to paragraph (1) in an amount equal to the Secretary’s costs, including a pro rata share of any capital costs, but in no event more than an amount equal to that which would be charged by commercial, State, regional, or interstate compact entities for disposal of such waste.

        (3) In the event depleted uranium were ultimately determined to be low-level radioactive waste, the generator shall reimburse the Secretary for the disposal of depleted uranium pursuant to paragraph (1) in an amount equal to the Secretary’s costs, including a pro rata share of any capital costs.

        (4) In the event that a licensee requests the Secretary to accept for disposal depleted uranium pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall be required to take title to and possession of such depleted uranium at an existing DUF6 storage facility.

    (b) __Agreements with other persons__ 

        The generator may also enter into agreements for the disposal of low-level radioactive waste subject to subsection (a) of this section with any person other than the Secretary that is authorized by applicable laws and regulations to dispose of such wastes.

    (c) __State or interstate compacts__ 

        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no State or interstate compact shall be liable for the treatment, storage, or disposal of any low-level radioactive waste (including mixed waste) attributable to the operation, decontamination, and decommissioning of any uranium enrichment facility.

([Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 3113][/us/pl/104/134/s3113], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–347][/us/stat/110/1321-347]; [Pub. L. 108–447, div. C, title III, § 311][/us/pl/108/447/s311], Dec. 8, 2004, [118 Stat. 2959][/us/stat/118/2959].)

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the USEC Privatization Act and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

 __Amendments__ 

    2004—Subsec. (a)(4). [Pub. L. 108–447, § 311][/us/pl/108/447/s311], which directed the addition of par. (4) to subsec. (a) of [section 3113 of Public Law 102–486][/us/pl/102/486/s3113] ([42 U.S.C. 2297h–11][/us/usc/t42/s2297h–11]), was executed by adding par. (4) to subsec. (a) of this section, which is [section 3113 of Pub. L. 104–134][/us/pl/104/134/s3113], to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–10b.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–12.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%9311)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/104/134/s3113]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F134%2Fs3113
[/us/stat/110/1321-347]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F110%2F1321-347
[/us/pl/108/447/s311]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F447%2Fs311
[/us/stat/118/2959]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F118%2F2959
[/us/pl/108/447/s311]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F108%2F447%2Fs311
[/us/pl/102/486/s3113]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F102%2F486%2Fs3113
[/us/usc/t42/s2297h–11]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%9311
[/us/pl/104/134/s3113]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F134%2Fs3113


