---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s2297h–7

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–6.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–8.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%937)

## § 2297h–7. Liabilities

    (a) __Liability of United States__ 

        (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, all liabilities arising out of the operation of the uranium enrichment enterprise before July 1, 1993, shall remain the direct liabilities of the Secretary.

        (2) Except as provided in subsection (a)(3) of this section or otherwise provided in a memorandum of agreement entered into by the Corporation and the Office of Management and Budget prior to the privatization date, all liabilities arising out of the operation of the Corporation between July 1, 1993, and the privatization date shall remain the direct liabilities of the United States.

        (3) All liabilities arising out of the disposal of depleted uranium generated by the Corporation between July 1, 1993, and the privatization date shall become the direct liabilities of the Secretary.

        (4) Any stated or implied consent for the United States, or any agent or officer of the United States, to be sued by any person for any legal, equitable, or other relief with respect to any claim arising from any action taken by any agent or officer of the United States in connection with the privatization of the Corporation is hereby withdrawn.

        (5) To the extent that any claim against the United States under this section is of the type otherwise required by Federal statute or regulation to be presented to a Federal agency or official for adjudication or review, such claim shall be presented to the Department of Energy in accordance with procedures to be established by the Secretary. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to impose on the Department of Energy liability to pay any claim presented pursuant to this paragraph.

        (6) The Attorney General shall represent the United States in any action seeking to impose liability under this subsection.

    (b) __Liability of Corporation__ 

        Notwithstanding any provision of any agreement to which the Corporation is a party, the Corporation shall not be considered in breach, default, or violation of any agreement because of the transfer of such agreement to the private corporation under [section 2297h–6 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s2297h–6] or any other action the Corporation is required to take under this subchapter.

    (c) __Liability of private corporation__ 

        Except as provided in this subchapter, the private corporation shall be liable for any liabilities arising out of its operations after the privatization date.

    (d) __Liability of officers and directors__ 

        (1) No officer, director, employee, or agent of the Corporation shall be liable in any civil proceeding to any party in connection with any action taken in connection with the privatization if, with respect to the subject matter of the action, suit, or proceeding, such person was acting within the scope of his employment.

        (2) This subsection shall not apply to claims arising under the Securities Act of 1933 ([15 U.S.C. 77a][/us/usc/t15/s77a] et seq.), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ([15 U.S.C. 78a][/us/usc/t15/s78a] et seq.), or under the Constitution or laws of any State, territory, or possession of the United States relating to transactions in securities.

([Pub. L. 104–134, title III, § 3109][/us/pl/104/134/s3109], Apr. 26, 1996, [110 Stat. 1321–339][/us/stat/110/1321-339].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Securities Act of 1933, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is [act May 27, 1933, ch. 38][/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38], title I, [48 Stat. 74][/us/stat/48/74], as amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (§ 77a et seq.) of chapter 2A of Title 15, Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 77a of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s77a] and Tables.

    The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), is [act June 6, 1934, ch. 404][/us/act/1934-06-06/ch404], [48 Stat. 881][/us/stat/48/881], as amended, which is classified principally to chapter 2B (§ 78a et seq.) of Title 15. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see [section 78a of Title 15][/us/usc/t15/s78a] and Tables.

 __Codification__ 

    Section was enacted as part of the USEC Privatization Act and also as part of the Omnibus Consolidated Rescissions and Appropriations Act of 1996, and not as part of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 which comprises this chapter.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–6.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch23/dB/schVIII/m__us_usc_t42_s2297h–8.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%937)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s2297h–6]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs2297h%E2%80%936
[/us/usc/t15/s77a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs77a
[/us/usc/t15/s78a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs78a
[/us/pl/104/134/s3109]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F134%2Fs3109
[/us/stat/110/1321-339]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F110%2F1321-339
[/us/act/1933-05-27/ch38]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1933-05-27%2Fch38
[/us/stat/48/74]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F48%2F74
[/us/usc/t15/s77a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs77a
[/us/act/1934-06-06/ch404]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1934-06-06%2Fch404
[/us/stat/48/881]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F48%2F881
[/us/usc/t15/s78a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft15%2Fs78a


