---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s100754

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schIV/m__us_usc_t54_s100753.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schIV/m__us_usc_t54_s100755.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100754)

## § 100754. Relinquishment of legislative jurisdiction

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may relinquish to a State or a territory (including a possession) of the United States part of the legislative jurisdiction of the United States over System land or interests in land in that State or territory. Relinquishment may be accomplished—

        (1) by filing with the chief executive official of the State or territory a notice of relinquishment to take effect on acceptance; or

        (2) as the laws of the State or territory may otherwise provide.

    (b)  __Submission of Agreement to Congress__  __.—__ 

    Prior to consummating a relinquishment under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit the proposed agreement to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives. The Secretary shall not finalize the agreement until 60 calendar days after the submission has elapsed.

    (c)  __Concurrent Legislative Jurisdiction__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall diligently pursue the consummation of arrangements with each State or territory within which a System unit is located so that insofar as practicable the United States shall exercise concurrent legislative jurisdiction within System units.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3111][/us/stat/128/3111].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

100754  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–3.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 6, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1939; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(a)(1), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4583.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the words “territory (including a possession)” are substituted for “territory, or possession” the 1st time the words appear for clarity, because a possession is a category of territory, that is, one that has very little local autonomy. In subsequent instances, the word “territory” is used in an equivalent sense. The word “Commonwealth” is omitted as being included in “territory (including a possession)”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schIV/m__us_usc_t54_s100753.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1007/schIV/m__us_usc_t54_s100755.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs100754)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3111]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3111


