---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s102101

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1021.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_s102102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102101)

## § 102101. General provisions

    (a) __Limitation.—__ 

        (1)  __No lease or grant of a privilege that interferes with free access__  __.—__ 

        No natural curiosity, wonder, or object of interest shall be leased or granted to anyone on such terms as to interfere with free access by the public to any System unit.

        (2)  __Exception for grazing livestock__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary, under such regulations and on such terms as the Secretary may prescribe, may grant the privilege to graze livestock within a System unit when, in the Secretary’s judgment, the use is not detrimental to the primary purpose for which the System unit was created. This paragraph does not apply to Yellowstone National Park.

    (b)  __Advertising and Competitive Bids Not Required__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may grant privileges and enter into leases described in subsection (a), and enter into related contracts with responsible persons, firms, or corporations, without advertising and without securing competitive bids.

    (c)  __Assignment or Transfer__  __.—__ 

    No contract, lease, or privilege described in subsection (a) or (b) that is entered into or granted shall be assigned or transferred by the grantee, lessee, or licensee without the prior written approval of the Secretary.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3152][/us/stat/128/3152].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102101  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 3 (last sentence)  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 25, 1916, ch. 408, § 3 (last sentence), 39 Stat. 535; Mar. 7, 1928, ch. 137, § 1 (matter relating to section 3 of the Act of August 25, 1916, in 12th undesignated par. under heading “NATIONAL PARK SERVICE”), 45 Stat. 235; Pub. L. 85–434, May 29, 1958, 72 Stat. 152; Pub. L. 105–391, title IV, § 415(b)(1), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3515.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(1), the word “rented” is omitted as included in “leases”.

    In subsections (b) and (c), the word “permit” is omitted for consistency because a permit is not mentioned earlier in the source provision.

    In subsection (c), the word “lessee” is substituted for “permittees” for consistency in the section.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1021.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_s102102.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102101)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3152]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3152


