---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s102102

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_s102101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1023/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1023.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102102)

## § 102102. Authority of Secretary to enter into lease for buildings and associated property

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    To facilitate the administration of the System, the Secretary, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider advisable, and except as provided in subsection (b) and subject to subsection (c), may enter into a lease with any person or government entity for the use of buildings and associated property administered by the Secretary as part of the System.

    (b)  __Prohibited Activities__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may not use a lease under subsection (a) to authorize the lessee to engage in activities that are subject to authorization by the Secretary through a concession contract, commercial use authorization, or similar instrument.

    (c)  __Use__  __.—__ 

    Buildings and associated property leased under subsection (a)—

        (1) shall be used for an activity that is consistent with the purposes established by law for the System unit in which the building is located;

        (2) shall not result in degradation of the purposes and values of the System unit; and

        (3) shall be compatible with Service programs.

    (d) __Rental Amounts.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        With respect to a lease under subsection (a)—

            (A) payment of fair market value rental shall be required; and

            (B) [section 1302 of title 40][/us/usc/t40/s1302] shall not apply.

        (2)  __Adjustment__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may adjust the rental amount as appropriate to take into account any amounts to be expended by the lessee for preservation, maintenance, restoration, improvement, or repair and related expenses.

    (e) __Special Account.—__ 

        (1)  __Deposits__  __.—__ 

        Rental payments under a lease under subsection (a) shall be deposited in a special account in the Treasury.

        (2)  __Availability__  __.—__ 

        Amounts in the special account shall be available until expended, without further appropriation, for infrastructure needs at System units, including—

            (A) facility refurbishment;

            (B) repair and replacement;

            (C) infrastructure projects associated with System unit resource protection; and

            (D) direct maintenance of the leased buildings and associated property.

        (3)  __Accountability and results__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall develop procedures for the use of the special account that ensure accountability and demonstrated results consistent with this section and sections 100101(b), 100502, 100507, 100751(b), 100754, 100901(b) and (c), 100906(a) and (d), 101302(b)(1) and (c) to (e), 101306, 101702(b) and (c), 101901, 102701, and 102702 of this title.

    (f)  __Regulations__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall prescribe regulations implementing this section that include provisions to encourage and facilitate competition in the leasing process and provide for timely and adequate public comment.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3152][/us/stat/128/3152].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102102(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2 (matter before (a)).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 3 (matter before (a)), Aug. 18, 1970, 84 Stat. 826.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2(k)(1).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 91–383, § 3(k), as added Pub. L. 105–391, title VIII, § 802(a), Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3522.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102102(b) through (d)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2(k)(2) through (4)(B).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102102(e)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2(k)(5).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102102(f)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–2(k)(4)(C).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1021/m__us_usc_t54_s102101.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1023/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1023.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102102)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t40/s1302]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft40%2Fs1302
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3152]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3152


