---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153302)

## § 153302. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and educational, and include those intended or designed—

    (1) to perpetuate the memory of the men who, by their services or sacrifices during the war of the American Revolution, achieved the independence of the American people;

    (2) to unite and promote fellowship among their descendants;

    (3) to inspire them and the community at large with a more profound reverence for the principles of the government founded by our forefathers;

    (4) to encourage historical research in relation to the American Revolution;

    (5) to acquire and preserve the records of the individual services of the patriots of the war, as well as documents, relics, and landmarks;

    (6) to mark the scenes of the American Revolution by appropriate memorials;

    (7) to celebrate the anniversaries of the prominent events of the war and of the Revolutionary period;

    (8) to foster true patriotism;

    (9) to maintain and extend the institutions of American freedom; and

    (10) to carry out the purposes expressed in the preamble to the Constitution of our country and the injunctions of Washington in his farewell address to the American people.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1424][/us/stat/112/1424].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153302  </td>

    <td> 

36:20b.  </td>

    <td> 

June 9, 1906, ch. 3065, § 2, 34 Stat. 227.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the words “objects” and “declared to be” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153302)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1424]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1424


