---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s153303

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153303)

## § 153303. Powers

    The corporation may—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations for the admission, government, suspension, and expulsion of its members;

    (2) adopt and alter a seal;

    (3) provide for the election of its officers and define their duties;

    (4) provide for State societies or chapters with regulations for their conduct, and regulate and provide for the management, safe-keeping, and protection of their property and funds;

    (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the corporation; and

    (6) sue and be sued.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1424][/us/stat/112/1424].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

153303  </td>

    <td> 

36:20c.  </td>

    <td> 

June 9, 1906, ch. 3065, § 3, 34 Stat. 228; Sept. 8, 1961, Pub. L. 87–214, 75 Stat. 489.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (1), the words “make and” and “rules” are omitted as unnecessary. The word “amend” is substituted for “and from time to time to alter and repeal such constitution, by-laws, rules, and regulations, and to adopt others in their places” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words. The words “Provided always, That such constitution, by-laws, rules, and regulations be not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or any of the States thereof” are omitted as unnecessary.

    Clause (2) is substituted for “to adopt a common seal, and to alter the same at pleasure” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In clause (4), the word “regulations” is substituted for “rules” for consistency. The word “their” is substituted for “its” for clarity.

    Clause (5) is substituted for “receive, purchase, hold, sell, and convey real and personal estate, so far only as may be necessary or convenient for its lawful purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In clause (6), the words “complain and defend in any court” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1533/m__us_usc_t36_s153304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs153303)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1424]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1424


