---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s230104

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2301/m__us_usc_t36_s230103.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2301/m__us_usc_t36_s230105.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230104)

## § 230104. Powers

    The corporation may—

    (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

    (3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its activities;

    (4) make contracts;

    (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the corporation;

    (6) establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate State and territorial subdivisions and local chapters or posts;

    (7) publish a magazine and other publications;

    (8) sue and be sued; and

    (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1481][/us/stat/112/1481].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

230104  </td>

    <td> 

36:114 (words before 4th semicolon less perpetual succession, words after 5th semicolon).  </td>

    <td> 

May 28, 1936, ch. 471, § 4 (words before 4th semicolon less perpetual succession, words after 5th semicolon), 6, 49 Stat. 1391.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

   </td>

    <td> 

36:116.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of 36:116 is omitted as executed and obsolete.

    In clause (1), the words “apply, and administer” are omitted as unnecessary and for consistency in the revised title. The words “not inconsistent with the laws of the United States or of any State” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (2), the words “at pleasure” are omitted for consistency in the revised title.

    In clause (3), the word “activities” is substituted for “business” for consistency in the revised title.

    Clauses (4) and (5) are substituted for “to receive, hold, own, use, and dispose of such real estate, personal property, money, contract, rights, and privileges as shall be deemed necessary and incidental for its corporate purposes” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

    In clause (8), the words “in courts of law and equity” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In clause (9), the words “do any other act” are substituted for “generally to do any and all such acts and things” for consistency in the revised title and to eliminate unnecessary words.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2301/m__us_usc_t36_s230103.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch2301/m__us_usc_t36_s230105.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs230104)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1481]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1481


