---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101335

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schIII/m__us_usc_t54_s101334.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schIII/m__us_usc_t54_s101336.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101335)

## § 101335. Housing programs

    (a) __Joint Public-Private Sector Housing Program.—__ 

        (1)  __Lease-to-build program__  __.—__ 

        Subject to the appropriation of necessary funds in advance, the Secretary may lease—

            (A) Federal land and interests in land to qualified persons for the construction of field employee quarters for any period not to exceed 50 years; and

            (B) developed and undeveloped non-Federal land for providing field employee quarters.

        (2)  __Competitive leasing__  __.—__ 

        Each lease under paragraph (1)(A) shall be awarded through the use of publicly advertised, competitively bid, or competitively negotiated contracting procedures.

        (3)  __Terms and conditions__  __.—__ 

        Each lease under paragraph (1)(A)—

            (A) shall stipulate whether operation and maintenance of field employee quarters is to be provided by the lessee, field employees, or the Federal Government;

            (B) shall require that the construction and rehabilitation of field employee quarters be done in accordance with the requirements of the Service and local applicable building codes and industry standards;

            (C) shall contain additional terms and conditions as may be appropriate to protect the Federal interest, including limits on rents that the lessee may charge field employees for the occupancy of quarters, conditions on maintenance and repairs, and agreements on the provision of charges for utilities and other infrastructure; and

            (D) may be granted at less than fair market value if the Secretary determines that the lease will improve the quality and availability of field employee quarters.

        (4)  __Contributions by federal government__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary may make payments, subject to appropriations, or contributions in kind, in advance or on a continuing basis, to reduce the costs of planning, construction, or rehabilitation of quarters on or off Federal land under a lease under this subsection.

    (b) __Rental Guarantee Program.—__ 

        (1)  __General authority__  __.—__ 

        Subject to the appropriation of necessary funds in advance, the Secretary may enter into a lease-to-build arrangement as set forth in subsection (a) with further agreement to guarantee the occupancy of field employee quarters constructed or rehabilitated under the lease. A guarantee made under this paragraph shall be in writing.

        (2) __Limitations on guarantees.—__ 

            (A)  __Specific guarantees__  __.—__ 

            The Secretary may not guarantee—

                (i) the occupancy of more than 75 percent of the units constructed or rehabilitated under the lease; and

                (ii) at a rental rate that exceeds the rate based on the reasonable value of the housing in accordance with requirements applicable under [section 5911 of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s5911].

            (B)  __Total of outstanding guarantees__  __.—__ 

            Outstanding guarantees shall not be in excess of $3,000,000.

        (3)  __Agreement to rent to federal government employees__  __.—__ 

        A guarantee may be made under this subsection only if the lessee agrees to permit the Secretary to utilize for housing purposes any units for which the guarantee is made.

        (4)  __Operation and maintenance__  __.—__ 

        A lease shall be void if the lessee fails to maintain a satisfactory level of operation and maintenance.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3127][/us/stat/128/3127].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101335(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 17o(7)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(a)(7), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4190; Pub. L. 106–176, title I, § 120(a)(1)(B), Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 28.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101335(b)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 17o(8)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 814(a)(8), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4192.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schIII/m__us_usc_t54_s101334.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schIII/m__us_usc_t54_s101336.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101335)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t5/s5911]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5911
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3127]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3127


