---
---

# 18 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t18/s891

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t18/ptI/ch42/m__us_usc_t18_ptI_ch42.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t18/ptI/ch42/m__us_usc_t18_s892.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft18%2Fs891)

## § 891. Definitions and rules of construction

For the purposes of this chapter:

    (1) To extend credit means to make or renew any loan, or to enter into any agreement, tacit or express, whereby the repayment or satisfaction of any debt or claim, whether acknowledged or disputed, valid or invalid, and however arising, may or will be deferred.

    (2) The term “creditor”, with reference to any given extension of credit, refers to any person making that extension of credit, or to any person claiming by, under, or through any person making that extension of credit.

    (3) The term “debtor”, with reference to any given extension of credit, refers to any person to whom that extension of credit is made, or to any person who guarantees the repayment of that extension of credit, or in any manner undertakes to indemnify the creditor against loss resulting from the failure of any person to whom that extension of credit is made to repay the same.

    (4) The repayment of any extension of credit includes the repayment, satisfaction, or discharge in whole or in part of any debt or claim, acknowledged or disputed, valid or invalid, resulting from or in connection with that extension of credit.

    (5) To collect an extension of credit means to induce in any way any person to make repayment thereof.

    (6) An extortionate extension of credit is any extension of credit with respect to which it is the understanding of the creditor and the debtor at the time it is made that delay in making repayment or failure to make repayment could result in the use of violence or other criminal means to cause harm to the person, reputation, or property of any person.

    (7) An extortionate means is any means which involves the use, or an express or implicit threat of use, of violence or other criminal means to cause harm to the person, reputation, or property of any person.

    (8) The term “State” includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and territories and possessions of the United States.

    (9) State law, including conflict of laws rules, governing the enforceability through civil judicial processes of repayment of any extension of credit or the performance of any promise given in consideration thereof shall be judicially noticed. This paragraph does not impair any authority which any court would otherwise have to take judicial notice of any matter of State law.

(Added [Pub. L. 90–321, title II, § 202(a)][/us/pl/90/321/s202/a], May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 160][/us/stat/82/160].)

 __Effective Date__ 

    Chapter effective May 29, 1968, see [section 504(a) of Pub. L. 90–321][/us/pl/90/321/s504/a].

 __Congressional Findings and Declaration of Purpose__ 

[Pub. L. 90–321, title II, § 201][/us/pl/90/321/s201], May 29, 1968, [82 Stat. 159][/us/stat/82/159], provided that:

>     “(a)

>      The Congress makes the following findings:

>         “(1) Organized crime is interstate and international in character. Its activities involve many billions of dollars each year. It is directly responsible for murders, willful injuries to person and property, corruption of officials, and terrorization of countless citizens. A substantial part of the income of organized crime is generated by extortionate credit transactions.

>         “(2) Extortionate credit transactions are characterized by the use, or the express or implicit threat of the use, of violence or other criminal means to cause harm to person, reputation, or property as a means of enforcing repayment. Among the factors which have rendered past efforts at prosecution almost wholly ineffective has been the existence of exclusionary rules of evidence stricter than necessary for the protection of constitutional rights.

>         “(3) Extortionate credit transactions are carried on to a substantial extent in interstate and foreign commerce and through the means and instrumentalities of such commerce. Even where extortionate credit transactions are purely intrastate in character, they nevertheless directly affect interstate and foreign commerce.

>         “(4) Extortionate credit transactions directly impair the effectiveness and frustrate the purposes of the laws enacted by the Congress on the subject of bankruptcies.

>     “(b) On the basis of the findings stated in subsection (a) of this section, the Congress determines that the provisions of chapter 42 of title 18 of the United States Code are necessary and proper for the purpose of carrying into execution the powers of Congress to regulate commerce and to establish uniform and effective laws on the subject of bankruptcy.”

 __Annual Report to Congress by Attorney General__ 

    [Section 203 of Pub. L. 90–321][/us/pl/90/321/s203] directed Attorney General to make an annual report to Congress of activities of Department of Justice in enforcement of this chapter, prior to repeal by [Pub. L. 97–375, title I, § 109(b)][/us/pl/97/375/s109/b], Dec. 21, 1982, [96 Stat. 1820][/us/stat/96/1820].

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t18/ptI/ch42/m__us_usc_t18_ptI_ch42.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t18/ptI/ch42/m__us_usc_t18_s892.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft18%2Fs891)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/90/321/s202/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F90%2F321%2Fs202%2Fa
[/us/stat/82/160]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F82%2F160
[/us/pl/90/321/s504/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F90%2F321%2Fs504%2Fa
[/us/pl/90/321/s201]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F90%2F321%2Fs201
[/us/stat/82/159]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F82%2F159
[/us/pl/90/321/s203]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F90%2F321%2Fs203
[/us/pl/97/375/s109/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F97%2F375%2Fs109%2Fb
[/us/stat/96/1820]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F96%2F1820


