---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s312304

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3123/m__us_usc_t54_s312303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3123/m__us_usc_t54_s312305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312304)

## § 312304. Duties and powers; administrative support

    (a)  __Duties__  __.—__ 

    The Commission shall—

        (1) identify and publish a list of cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings located abroad that are associated with the foreign heritage of United States citizens from eastern and central Europe, particularly cemeteries, monuments, and buildings that are in danger of deterioration or destruction;

        (2) encourage the preservation and protection of those cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings by obtaining, in cooperation with the Secretary of State, assurances from foreign governments that the cemeteries, monuments, and buildings will be preserved and protected; and

        (3) prepare and disseminate reports on the condition of, and the progress toward preserving and protecting, those cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings.

    (b) __Powers.—__ 

        (1)  __Hold hearings, request attendance, take testimony, and receive evidence__  __.—__ 

        The Commission or any member it authorizes may, for the purposes of carrying out this chapter, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, request such attendance, take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers appropriate.

        (2)  __Appoint personnel and fix pay__  __.—__ 

        The Commission may appoint such personnel (subject to the provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service) and may fix the pay of such personnel (subject to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5), as the Commission considers desirable.

        (3)  __Procure temporary and intermittent services__  __.—__ 

        The Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized by [section 3109(b) of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s3109/b], but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic pay then in effect under [section 5376 of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s5376].

        (4)  __Detail personnel to commisison __  __ <sup>\[__  __1__  __\]</sup> __  __ <sup><sup> __  __1__  __ So in original. Probably should be “__  __commission__  __”.__  __ </sup></sup> __  __.—__ 

        On request of the Commission, the head of any Federal department or agency, including the Secretary of State, may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties under this chapter.

        (5)  __Secure information__  __.—__ 

        The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of the United States, including the Department of State, any information necessary to enable it to carry out this chapter. On the request of the Chairman of the Commission, the head of the department or agency shall furnish the information to the Commission.

        (6)  __Gifts or donations__  __.—__ 

        The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations of money or property.

        (7)  __Use of mails__  __.—__ 

        The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner and on the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States.

    (c)  __Administrative Support__  __.—__ 

    The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis administrative support services as the Commission may request.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3252][/us/stat/128/3252].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312304(a)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469j(c).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 99–83, title XIII, § 1303(c), (g), Aug. 8, 1985, 99 Stat. 280, 281.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

312304(b)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469j(g).  </td>

    <td>   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a)(2), the word “Secretary” is substituted for “Department” because of [22 U.S.C. 2651][/us/usc/t22/s2651] and 2651a(a).

    In subsection (b)(3), the words “under [section 5376 of title 5][/us/usc/t5/s5376]” are substituted for “for grade GS–18 of the General Schedule ([5 U.S.C. 5332(a)][/us/usc/t5/s5332/a])” because of section 529 \[title I, § 101(c)(1)\] of the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1991 ([Public Law 101–509][/us/pl/101/509], [5 U.S.C. 5376][/us/usc/t5/s5376] note).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3123/m__us_usc_t54_s312303.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3123/m__us_usc_t54_s312305.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs312304)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t5/s3109/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs3109%2Fb
[/us/usc/t5/s5376]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5376
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3252]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3252
[/us/usc/t22/s2651]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft22%2Fs2651
[/us/usc/t5/s5376]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5376
[/us/usc/t5/s5332/a]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5332%2Fa
[/us/pl/101/509]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F101%2F509
[/us/usc/t5/s5376]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs5376


