---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3085/m__us_usc_t54_s308501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3087.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308502)

## § 308502. National women’s rights history project partnerships network

    (a)  __Grants__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may make matching grants and give technical assistance for development of a network of governmental and nongovernmental entities (referred to in this section as the “network”), the purpose of which is to provide interpretive and educational program development of national women’s rights history, including historic preservation.

    (b) __Management of Network.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        Through a competitive process, the Secretary shall designate a nongovernmental managing entity to manage the network.

        (2)  __Coordination__  __.—__ 

        The nongovernmental managing entity designated under paragraph (1) shall work in partnership with the Director and State historic preservation offices to coordinate operation of the network.

    (c) __Cost-Sharing Requirement.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using any assistance made available under this section shall be 50 percent.

        (2)  __State historic preservation offices__  __.—__ 

        Matching grants for historic preservation specific to the network may be made available through State historic preservation offices.

    (d)  __Authorization of Appropriations__  __.—__ 

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2012 and 2013.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3236][/us/stat/128/3236].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308502  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469m(c).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle B, § 7111(c), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1200.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (b)(1), the words “nongovernmental managing entity” are substituted for “nongovernmental managing network” for consistency.

    In subsection (d), reference to fiscal years 2009 to 2011 is omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3085/m__us_usc_t54_s308501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3087/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dB_ch3087.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3236]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3236


