---
---

# 40 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t40/s17901

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t40/stVI/ch179/m__us_usc_t40_stVI_ch179.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t40/stVI/ch179/m__us_usc_t40_s17902.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft40%2Fs17901)

## § 17901. Definitions

In this chapter, the following definitions apply:

    (1) __Federal agency.—__ 

    The term “federal agency” means a department, agency, or instrumentality of the Federal Government.

    (2) __Federally generated electric energy.—__ 

    The term “federally generated electric energy” means any electric power generated by an electric generating facility owned and operated by a federal agency.

    (3) __Non-federal person.—__ 

    The term “non-federal person” means a corporation, cooperative, municipality, or other non-federal entity that generates electric energy through a facility other than a federally owned electric generating facility.

([Pub. L. 107–217][/us/pl/107/217], Aug. 21, 2002, [116 Stat. 1288][/us/stat/116/1288].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

17901  </td>

    <td> 

40:795.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 96–571, § 2, Dec. 22, 1980, 94 Stat. 3341.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In clause (1), the definition of “agency” as referring to the head of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government is rewritten as a definition of “federal agency” to avoid confusion between the role of the “agency” and the “head of the agency”. Throughout the chapter, the words “head of the federal agency” are used when the source provision is referring to action taken by an official as opposed to the concept of the agency as an institution.

    In clause (3), the text of 40:795(1) and (4) is combined to eliminate a definition (40:795(1)) that is used only once.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t40/stVI/ch179/m__us_usc_t40_stVI_ch179.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t40/stVI/ch179/m__us_usc_t40_s17902.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft40%2Fs17901)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/107/217]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F107%2F217
[/us/stat/116/1288]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F116%2F1288


