---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308903

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308902.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308904.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308903)

## § 308903. Grants

    (a)  __Determination of Grants__  __.—__ 

    Of the amounts made available for grants under [section 308905 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308905], not less than 50 percent shall be made available for grants for projects to preserve collections and historic property, to be distributed through a competitive grant process administered by the Secretary, subject to the selection criteria established under subsection (d).

    (b)  __Application for Grants__  __.—__ 

    To be considered for a grant under the program an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application containing such information as the Secretary may require.

    (c) __Collections and Historic Property Eligible for Grants.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        A collection or historic property shall be provided a grant under the program only if the Secretary determines that the collection or historic property is—

            (A) nationally significant; and

            (B) threatened or endangered.

        (2)  __Eligible collections__  __.—__ 

        A determination by the Secretary regarding the national significance of a collection under paragraph (1)(A) shall be made in consultation with the organizations described in [section 308902(b) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308902/b], as appropriate.

        (3)  __Eligible historic property__  __.—__ 

        To be eligible for a grant under the program, a historic property shall, as of the date of the grant application—

            (A) be listed on the National Register of Historic Places at the national level of significance; or

            (B) be designated as a National Historic Landmark.

    (d) __Selection Criteria.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall not provide a grant under this chapter to a project for a collection or historic property unless the project—

            (A) eliminates or substantially mitigates the threat of destruction or deterioration of the collection or historic property;

            (B) has a clear public benefit; and

            (C) is able to be completed on schedule and within the budget described in the grant application.

        (2)  __Preference__  __.—__ 

        In providing grants under this chapter, the Secretary may give preference to projects that carry out the purposes of both the program and the Preserve America Program.

        (3)  __Limitation__  __.—__ 

        In providing grants under this chapter, the Secretary shall provide only one grant to each project selected for a grant.

    (e) __Consultation and Notification by Secretary.—__ 

        (1) __Consultation.—__ 

            (A)  __In general__  __.—__ 

            Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall consult with the organizations described in [section 308902(b) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308902/b] in preparing the list of projects to be provided grants for a fiscal year under the program.

            (B)  __Limitation__  __.—__ 

            If an organization described in [section 308902(b) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308902/b] has submitted an application for a grant under the program, the organization shall be recused by the Secretary from the consultation requirements under subparagraph (A) and [section 308902(b) of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308902/b].

        (2)  __Notification__  __.—__ 

        Not later than 30 days before the date on which the Secretary provides grants for a fiscal year under the program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a list of any eligible projects that are to be provided grants under the program for the fiscal year.

    (f) __Cost-Sharing Requirement.—__ 

        (1)  __In general__  __.—__ 

        The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out a project provided a grant under this chapter shall be not less than 50 percent of the total cost of the project.

        (2)  __Form of non-federal share__  __.—__ 

        The non-Federal share required under paragraph (1) shall be in the form of—

            (A) cash; or

            (B) donated supplies or related services, the value of which shall be determined by the Secretary.

        (3)  __Requirement__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary shall ensure that each applicant for a grant has the capacity and a feasible plan for securing the non-Federal share for an eligible project required under paragraph (1) before a grant is provided to the eligible project under the program.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3244][/us/stat/128/3244].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308903  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469o(c)(2) through (7).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle D, § 7303(c)(2) through (7), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1217.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsections (b) and (c), the word “competitive” is omitted for consistency in the chapter.

    In subsection (e)(1)(A), the words “by the Secretary” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (e)(1)(B), the word “organization” is substituted for “entity” for consistency.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308902.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308904.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308903)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s308905]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308905
[/us/usc/t54/s308902/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902%2Fb
[/us/usc/t54/s308902/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902%2Fb
[/us/usc/t54/s308902/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902%2Fb
[/us/usc/t54/s308902/b]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902%2Fb
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3244]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3244


