---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s308902

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902)

## § 308902. Establishment

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    There is established in the Department of the Interior the Save America’s Treasures Program.

    (b)  __Participants__  __.—__ 

    In consultation and partnership with the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United States, the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers, the National Association of Tribal Historic Preservation Officers, and the President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities, the Secretary shall use the amounts made available under [section 308905 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s308905] to provide grants to eligible entities for projects to preserve nationally significant collections and historic property.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3244][/us/stat/128/3244].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

308902  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 469o(a), (c)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 111–11, title VII, subtitle D, § 7303(a), (c)(1), Mar. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 1216, 1217.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the words “The purpose of this section is to authorize within the Department of the Interior the Save America’s Treasures Program” are omitted as unnecessary. The words “to be carried out by the Director of the National Park Service” are omitted because the definition of “Secretary” in section 308901 of the new title provides that the Secretary acts through the Director and because this is the only place in the chapter where the Director is mentioned.

    In subsection (b), the words “subject to paragraph (6)(A)(ii)” are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308901.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dB/ch3089/m__us_usc_t54_s308903.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308902)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s308905]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs308905
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3244]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3244


