---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302302)

## § 302302. Program evaluation

    (a)  __When Evaluation Should Occcur __  __ <sup>\[__  __1__  __\]</sup> __  __ <sup><sup> __  __1__  __ So in original. Probably should be “__  __Occur__  __”.__  __ </sup></sup> __  __.—__ 

    Periodically, but not less than every 4 years after the approval of any State program under [section 302301 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s302301], the Secretary, in consultation with the Council on the appropriate provisions of this division, and in cooperation with the State Historic Preservation Officer, shall evaluate the program to determine whether it is consistent with this division.

    (b)  __Disapproval of Program__  __.—__ 

    If, at any time, the Secretary determines that a major aspect of a State program is not consistent with this division, the Secretary shall disapprove the program and suspend in whole or in part any contracts or cooperative agreements with the State and the State Historic Preservation Officer under this division, until the program is consistent with this division, unless the Secretary determines that the program will be made consistent with this division within a reasonable period of time.

    (c)  __Oversight__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary, in consultation with State Historic Preservation Officers, shall establish oversight methods to ensure State program consistency and quality without imposing undue review burdens on State Historic Preservation Officers.

    (d) __State Fiscal Audit and Management System.—__ 

        (1)  __Substitution for comparable federal systems__  __.—__ 

        At the discretion of the Secretary, a State system of fiscal audit and management may be substituted for comparable Federal systems so long as the State system—

            (A) establishes and maintains substantially similar accountability standards; and

            (B) provides for independent professional peer review.

        (2)  __Fiscal audits and review by secretary__  __.—__ 

        The Secretary—

            (A) may conduct periodic fiscal audits of State programs approved under this subdivision as needed; and

            (B) shall ensure that the programs meet applicable accountability standards.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3195][/us/stat/128/3195].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302302  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(b)(2)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(b)(2), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2990; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4004(1), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4753.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302301.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302302)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s302301]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302301
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3195]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3195


