---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302303

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302303)

## § 302303. Responsibilities of State Historic Preservation Officer

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    It shall be the responsibility of the State Historic Preservation Officer to administer the State Historic Preservation Program.

    (b)  __Particular Responsibilities__  __.—__ 

    It shall be the responsibility of the State Historic Preservation Officer to—

        (1) in cooperation with Federal and State agencies, local governments, and private organizations and individuals, direct and conduct a comprehensive statewide survey of historic property and maintain inventories of the property;

        (2) identify and nominate eligible property to the National Register and otherwise administer applications for listing historic property on the National Register;

        (3) prepare and implement a comprehensive statewide historic preservation plan;

        (4) administer the State program of Federal assistance for historic preservation within the State;

        (5) advise and assist, as appropriate, Federal and State agencies and local governments in carrying out their historic preservation responsibilities;

        (6) cooperate with the Secretary, the Council, other Federal and State agencies, local governments, and private organizations and individuals to ensure that historic property is taken into consideration at all levels of planning and development;

        (7) provide public information, education, and training and technical assistance in historic preservation;

        (8) cooperate with local governments in the development of local historic preservation programs and assist local governments in becoming certified pursuant to chapter 3025;

        (9)

         consult with appropriate Federal agencies in accordance with this division on—

            (A) Federal undertakings that may affect historic property; and

            (B) the content and sufficiency of any plans developed to protect, manage, or reduce or mitigate harm to that property; and

        (10) advise andassist in the evaluation of proposals for rehabilitation projects that may qualify for Federal assistance.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3195][/us/stat/128/3195].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302303  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(b)(3)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(b)(3), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2991; Pub. L. 102–575, title XL, § 4004(2), Oct. 30, 1992, 106 Stat. 4754.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In paragraph (6) of subsection (b), the word “private” is added before “oranizations” for consistency with paragraph (1).

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302302.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302304.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302303)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3195]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3195


