---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s302301

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3023.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302301)

## § 302301. Regulations

    The Secretary, in consultation with the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers and the National Trust, shall promulgate regulations for State Historic Preservation Programs. The regulations shall provide that a State program submitted to the Secretary under this chapter shall be approved by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the program provides for—

    (1) the designation and appointment by the chief elected official of the State of a State Historic Preservation Officer to administer the program in accordance with [section 302303 of this title][/us/usc/t54/s302303] and for the employment or appointment by the officer of such professionally qualified staff as may be necessary for those purposes;

    (2) an adequate and qualified State historic preservation review board designated by the State Historic Preservation Officer unless otherwise provided for by State law; and

    (3) adequate public participation in the State Historic Preservation Program, including the process of recommending properties for nomination to the National Register.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3194][/us/stat/128/3194].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

302301  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 470a(b)(1)  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 89–665, title I, § 101(b)(1), Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915; Pub. L. 91–383, § 11, as added Pub. L. 94–458, § 2, Oct. 7, 1976, 90 Stat. 1942; Pub. L. 93–54, § 1(d), July 1, 1973, 87 Stat. 139; Pub. L. 96–205, title VI, § 608(a)(1), (2), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 92; Pub. L. 96–515, title II, § 201(a), Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2990.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before paragraph (1), the words “or revise” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In paragraph (1), the words “chief elected official” are substituted for “Governor” for clarity because the definition of “State” in section 300316 of the new title includes entities in which the chief elected official is not the Governor.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_stIII_dA_ch3023.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stIII/dA/ch3023/m__us_usc_t54_s302302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302301)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t54/s302303]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs302303
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3194]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3194


