---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s110103

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1101/m__us_usc_t36_s110102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1101/m__us_usc_t36_s110104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs110103)

## § 110103. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of incorporation and include a continuing commitment, on a national basis, to—

    (1) maintain true allegiance to the United States;

    (2) foster and perpetuate true Americanism;

    (3) combat whatever tends to impair the efficiency and permanency of our free institutions;

    (4) uphold the fair name of Jews and fight their battles wherever unjustly assailed;

    (5) encourage the doctrine of universal liberty, equal rights, and full justice to all men;

    (6) combat the powers of bigotry and darkness wherever originating and whatever the target;

    (7) preserve the spirit of comradeship by mutual helpfulness to comrades and their families;

    (8) cooperate with and support existing educational institutions and establish educational institutions;

    (9) foster the education of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen and members of the corporation in the ideals and principles of Americanism;

    (10) instill love of country and flag;

    (11) promote sound minds and bodies in members of the corporation and their youth;

    (12) preserve the memories and records of patriotic service performed by the men and women of the Jewish faith and honor their memory; and

    (13) shield from neglect the graves of our heroic dead.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1367][/us/stat/112/1367].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

110103  </td>

    <td> 

36:2703.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 21, 1984, Pub. L. 98–391, § 3, 98 Stat. 1358.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “objects” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1101/m__us_usc_t36_s110102.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1101/m__us_usc_t36_s110104.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs110103)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1367]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1367


