---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s16358

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch149/schIX/ptI/m__us_usc_t42_s16357.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch149/schIX/ptI/m__us_usc_t42_s16359.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs16358)

## § 16358. Strategic research portfolio analysis and coordination plan

    (a) __In general__ 

        The Secretary shall periodically review all of the science and technology activities of the Department in a strategic framework that takes into account both the frontiers of science to which the Department can contribute and the national needs relevant to the Department’s statutory missions.

    (b) __Coordination analysis and plan__ 

        As part of the review under subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop a coordination plan to improve coordination and collaboration in research, development, demonstration, and commercial application activities across Department organizational boundaries.

    (c) __Plan contents__ 

    The plan shall describe—

        (1) cross-cutting scientific and technical issues and research questions that span more than one program or major office of the Department;

        (2) how the applied technology programs of the Department are coordinating their activities, and addressing those questions;

        (3) ways in which the technical interchange within the Department, particularly between the Office of Science and the applied technology programs, can be enhanced, including ways in which the research agendas of the Office of Science and the applied programs can interact and assist each other;

        (4) a description of how the Secretary will ensure that the Department’s overall research agenda include, in addition to fundamental, curiosity-driven research, fundamental research related to topics of concern to the applied programs, and applications in Departmental technology programs of research results generated by fundamental, curiosity-driven research.

    (d) __Plan transmittal__ 

        Not later than 12 months after August 8, 2005, and every 4 years thereafter, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress the results of the review under subsection (a) and the coordination plan under subsection (b).

([Pub. L. 109–58, title IX][/us/pl/109/58/tIX], § 994, Aug. 8, 2005, [119 Stat. 914][/us/stat/119/914].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch149/schIX/ptI/m__us_usc_t42_s16357.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch149/schIX/ptI/m__us_usc_t42_s16359.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs16358)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/109/58/tIX]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F109%2F58%2FtIX
[/us/stat/119/914]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F119%2F914


