---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s14302

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch137/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s14301.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch137/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s14303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs14302)

## § 14302. Definitions

For purposes of this chapter:

    (1) __Administrator__ 

        The term “Administrator” means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

    (2) __Button cell__ 

        The term “button cell” means a button- or coin-shaped battery.

    (3) __Easily removable__ 

    The term “easily removable”, with respect to a battery, means detachable or removable at the end of the life of the battery—

        (A) from a consumer product by a consumer with the use of common household tools; or

        (B) by a retailer of replacements for a battery used as the principal electrical power source for a vehicle.

    (4) __Mercuric-oxide battery__ 

        The term “mercuric-oxide battery” means a battery that uses a mercuric-oxide electrode.

    (5) __Rechargeable battery__ 

    The term “rechargeable battery”—

        (A) means 1 or more voltaic or galvanic cells, electrically connected to produce electric energy, that is designed to be recharged for repeated uses; and

        (B) includes any type of enclosed device or sealed container consisting of 1 or more such cells, including what is commonly called a battery pack (and in the case of a battery pack, for the purposes of the requirements of easy removability and labeling under [section 14322 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s14322], means the battery pack as a whole rather than each component individually); but

        (C)

         does not include—

            (i) a lead-acid battery used to start an internal combustion engine or as the principal electrical power source for a vehicle, such as an automobile, a truck, construction equipment, a motorcycle, a garden tractor, a golf cart, a wheelchair, or a boat;

            (ii) a lead-acid battery used for load leveling or for storage of electricity generated by an alternative energy source, such as a solar cell or wind-driven generator;

            (iii) a battery used as a backup power source for memory or program instruction storage, timekeeping, or any similar purpose that requires uninterrupted electrical power in order to function if the primary energy supply fails or fluctuates momentarily; or

            (iv) a rechargeable alkaline battery.

    (6) __Rechargeable consumer product__ 

    The term “rechargeable consumer product”—

        (A) means a product that, when sold at retail, includes a regulated battery as a primary energy supply, and that is primarily intended for personal or household use; but

        (B) does not include a product that only uses a battery solely as a source of backup power for memory or program instruction storage, timekeeping, or any similar purpose that requires uninterrupted electrical power in order to function if the primary energy supply fails or fluctuates momentarily.

    (7) __Regulated battery__ 

    The term “regulated battery” means a rechargeable battery that—

        (A) contains a cadmium or a lead electrode or any combination of cadmium and lead electrodes; or

        (B) contains other electrode chemistries and is the subject of a determination by the Administrator under [section 14322(d) of this title][/us/usc/t42/s14322/d].

    (8) __Remanufactured product__ 

        The term “remanufactured product” means a rechargeable consumer product that has been altered by the replacement of parts, repackaged, or repaired after initial sale by the original manufacturer.

([Pub. L. 104–142, § 3][/us/pl/104/142/s3], May 13, 1996, [110 Stat. 1329][/us/stat/110/1329].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch137/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s14301.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch137/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s14303.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs14302)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s14322]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs14322
[/us/usc/t42/s14322/d]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs14322%2Fd
[/us/pl/104/142/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F104%2F142%2Fs3
[/us/stat/110/1329]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F110%2F1329


