---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101114

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101113.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101115.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101114)

## § 101114. Disposition of property or income

    (a)  __Authority To Dispose or Deal With Property or Income__  __.—__ 

    Except as otherwise required by the instrument of transfer, the National Park Foundation may sell, lease, invest, reinvest, retain, or otherwise dispose of or deal with any property or income from the property as the Board may determine.

    (b)  __Restriction__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation shall not engage in any business or make any investment that may not lawfully be made by a trust company in the District of Columbia, except that the Foundation may make any investment authorized by the instrument of transfer, and may retain any property accepted by the Foundation.

    (c)  __Use of Services and Facilities of the Departments of the Interior and Justice__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation may utilize the services and facilities of the Department of the Interior and the Department of Justice, and the services and facilities may be made available on request to the extent practicable with or without reimbursement. Amounts reimbursed to either Department shall be returned by the Department to the account from which the funds for which the reimbursement is made were drawn and may, without further appropriation, be expended for any purpose for which the account is authorized.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3121][/us/stat/128/3121].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101114  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 19h.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 90–209, § 4, Dec. 18, 1967, 81 Stat. 656; Pub. L. 106–176, title III, § 305, Mar. 10, 2000, 114 Stat. 33.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101113.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101115.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101114)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3121]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3121


