---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101112

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101111.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101113.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101112)

## § 101112. Board

    (a)  __Membership__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation shall consist of a Board having as members the Secretary, the Director, and no fewer than 6 private citizens of the United States appointed by the Secretary.

    (b)  __Term of Office and Vacancies__  __.—__ 

    The term of the private citizen members of the Board is 6 years. If a successor is chosen to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of a term, the successor shall be chosen only for the remainder of that term.

    (c)  __Chairman and Secretary__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary shall be the Chairman of the Board and the Director shall be the Secretary of the Board.

    (d)  __Board Membership Not an Office__  __.—__ 

    Membership on the Board shall not be an office within the meaning of the statutes of the United States.

    (e)  __Quorum__  __.—__ 

    A majority of the members of the Board serving at any time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

    (f)  __Seal__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation shall have an official seal, which shall be judicially noticed.

    (g)  __Meetings__  __.—__ 

    The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman and there shall be at least one meeting each year.

    (h)  __Compensation and Reimbursement__  __.—__ 

    No compensation shall be paid to the members of the Board for their services as members, but they shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members out of National Park Foundation funds available to the Board for those purposes.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3120][/us/stat/128/3120].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101112  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 19f  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 90–209, § 2, Dec. 18, 1967, 81 Stat. 656.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In this section, the text of [16 U.S.C. 19f][/us/usc/t16/s19f] (2d and last sentences in last sentences) is omitted as obsolete.

    In subsection (a), the words “ex officio” are omitted as unnecessary.

    In subsection (b), the words “whose initial terms shall be staggered to assure continuity of administration. Thereafter” are omitted as obsolete.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101111.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101113.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101112)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3120]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3120
[/us/usc/t16/s19f]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft16%2Fs19f


