---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101120

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101119.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1013.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101120)

## § 101120. Promotion of local fundraising support

    (a)  __Program__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation shall design and implement a comprehensive program to assist and promote philanthropic programs of support at the individual System unit level.

    (b)  __Implementation__  __.—__ 

    The program under subsection (a) shall be implemented to—

        (1) assist in the creation of local nonprofit support organizations; and

        (2) provide support, national consistency, and management-improving suggestions for local nonprofit support organizations.

    (c)  __Program__  __.—__ 

    The program under subsection (a)—

        (1) shall include the greatest number of System units as is practicable; and

        (2)

         at a minimum shall include—

            (A) a standard adaptable organizational design format to establish and sustain responsible management of a local nonprofit support organization for support of a System unit;

            (B) standard and legally tenable bylaws and recommended money-handling procedures that can easily be adapted as applied to individual System units; and

            (C) a standard training curriculum to orient and expand the operating expertise of personnel employed by local nonprofit support organizations.

    (d)  __Annual Report__  __.—__ 

    The National Park Foundation shall report the progress of the program under subsection (a) in the annual report of the Foundation.

    (e) __Affiliations.—__ 

        (1)  __Charter or corporate bylaws__  __.—__ 

        Nothing in this section requires—

            (A) a nonprofit support organization or friends group to modify current practices or to affiliate with the National Park Foundation; or

            (B) a local nonprofit support organization, established as a result of this section, to be bound through its charter or corporate bylaws to be permanently affiliated with the National Park Foundation.

        (2)  __Establishment__  __.—__ 

        An affiliation with the National Park Foundation shall be established only at the discretion of the governing board of a nonprofit organization.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3122][/us/stat/128/3122].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101120  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 19o.  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 90–209, § 11, as added Pub. L. 105–391, title VII, § 701, Nov. 13, 1998, 112 Stat. 3520.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1011/schII/m__us_usc_t54_s101119.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1013.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101120)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3122]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3122


