---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s102503

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1025/m__us_usc_t54_s102502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1025/m__us_usc_t54_s102504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102503)

## § 102503. Authority of Secretary

    (a)  __In General__  __.—__ 

    Notwithstanding other provisions or limitations of law, the Secretary may perform the functions described in this section in the manner that the Secretary considers to be in the public interest.

    (b)  __Donations and Bequests__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may accept donations and bequests of money or other personal property, and hold, use, expend, and administer the money or other personal property for purposes of this chapter.

    (c)  __Purchases__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may purchase museum objects and other personal property at prices that the Secretary considers to be reasonable.

    (d)  __Exchanges__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may make exchanges by accepting museum objects and other personal property and by granting in exchange for the museum objects or other personal property museum property under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary that no longer is needed or that may be held in duplicate among the museum properties administered by the Secretary. Exchanges shall be consummated on a basis that the Secretary considers to be equitable and in the public interest.

    (e)  __Acceptance of Loans of Property__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may accept the loan of museum objects and other personal property and pay transportation costs incidental to the museum objects or other personal property. Loans shall be accepted on terms and conditions that the Secretary considers necessary.

    (f)  __Loans of Property__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may loan to responsible public or private organizations, institutions, or agencies, without cost to the United States, such museum objects and other personal property as the Secretary shall consider advisable. Loans shall be made on terms and conditions that the Secretary considers necessary to protect the public interest in those properties.

    (g)  __Transfer of Museum Objects__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may transfer museum objects that the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes to qualified Federal agencies, including the Smithsonian Institution, that have programs to preserve and interpret cultural or natural heritage, and accept the transfer of museum objects for the purposes of this chapter from any other Federal agency, without reimbursement. The head of any other Federal agency may transfer, without reimbursement, museum objects directly to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for the purpose of this chapter.

    (h)  __Conveyance of Museum Objects__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may convey museum objects that the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes, without monetary consideration but subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary considers necessary, to private institutions exempt from Federal taxation under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ([26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)][/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3]) and to non-Federal governmental entities if the Secretary determines that the recipient is dedicated to the preservation and interpretation of natural or cultural heritage and is qualified to manage the property, prior to any conveyance under this subsection and subsection (g).

    (i)  __Destruction of Museum Objects__  __.—__ 

    The Secretary may destroy or cause to be destroyed museum objects that the Secretary determines to have no scientific, cultural, historic, educational, esthetic, or monetary value.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3158][/us/stat/128/3158].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102503(a) through (f)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 18f (less 1st sentence).  </td>

    <td> 

July 1, 1955, ch. 259, § 1 (less 1st sentence), 69 Stat. 242; Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 804(a)(1), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4187.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

102503(g) through (i)  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 18f–2(a).  </td>

    <td> 

July 1, 1955, ch. 259, § 2(a), as added Pub. L. 104–333, div. I, title VIII, § 804(a)(2), Nov. 12, 1996, 110 Stat. 4187.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1025/m__us_usc_t54_s102502.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1025/m__us_usc_t54_s102504.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs102503)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t26/s501/c/3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft26%2Fs501%2Fc%2F3
[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3158]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3158


