---
---

# 54 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t54/s101301

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schI/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1013_schI.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s101302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101301)

## § 101301. Maintenance management system

    The Service shall implement a maintenance management system in the maintenance and operations programs of the System. The system shall include the following elements:

    (1) A workload inventory of assets including detailed information that quantifies for all assets (including buildings, roads, utility systems, and grounds that must be maintained) the characteristics affecting the type of maintenance work performed.

    (2) A set of maintenance tasks that describe the maintenance work in each System unit.

    (3)

     A description of work standards including—

        (A) frequency of maintenance;

        (B) measurable quality standard to which assets should be maintained;

        (C) methods for accomplishing work;

        (D) required labor, equipment, and material resources; and

        (E) expected worker production for each maintenance task.

    (4) A work program and performance budget that develops an annual work plan identifying maintenance needs and financial resources to be devoted to each maintenance task.

    (5) A work schedule that identifies and prioritizes tasks to be done in a specific time period and specifies required labor resources.

    (6) Work orders specifying job authorizations and a record of work accomplished that can be used to record actual labor and material costs.

    (7) Reports and special analyses that compare planned versus actual accomplishments and costs and that can be used to evaluate maintenance operations.

([Pub. L. 113–287, § 3][/us/pl/113/287/s3], Dec. 19, 2014, [128 Stat. 3123][/us/stat/128/3123].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

101301  </td>

    <td> 

16 U.S.C. 1a–8(a).  </td>

    <td> 

Pub. L. 98–540, § 4(a), Oct. 24, 1984, 98 Stat. 2719; Pub. L. 103–437, § 6(d)(1), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4583.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schI/m__us_usc_t54_stI_dA_ch1013_schI.md) | [Next](./../../../../../../..//us/usc/t54/stI/dA/ch1013/schI/m__us_usc_t54_s101302.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft54%2Fs101301)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/113/287/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F113%2F287%2Fs3
[/us/stat/128/3123]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F128%2F3123


