---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152504

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152503.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152505.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152504)

## § 152504. Governing body

    (a) __Board of Directors.—__ 

        (1) The board of directors is the governing body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the board is responsible for all funds of the corporation.

        (2) The board shall consist of at least 15 directors. Their manner of selection (including the filling of vacancies) and term of office are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

    (b) __Officers.—__ 

        (1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of the board of directors, a president, three or more vice presidents as provided in the constitution and bylaws, a secretary, a treasurer, and an executive vice president. Their duties are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

        (2) Except for the executive vice president, the officers shall be elected at the annual meeting of the corporation. The executive vice president shall be elected by the board of directors in the manner provided in the constitution and bylaws.

    (c) __Trustees.—__ 

    The corporation shall have at least 15 trustees. Their manner of selection and term of office are as provided in the constitution and bylaws. The trustees have full power and control over contributed funds that they raise.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1416][/us/stat/112/1416].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152504(a)  </td>

    <td> 

36:467.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 429, §§ 7–9, 67 Stat. 571.  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152504(b)  </td>

    <td> 

36:468.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152504(c)  </td>

    <td> 

36:469.  </td>

    <td> 

   </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    In subsection (a), the text of 36:467(a) is omitted as obsolete. In paragraph (1), the word “funds” is substituted for “finance” for consistency in the revised title.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152503.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152505.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152504)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1416]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1416


