---
---

# 36 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t36/s152502

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152502)

## § 152502. Purposes

The purposes of the corporation are—

    (1) to further, encourage, and promote methods and procedures leading to increased safety, protection, and health among employees, employers, and children in industries, on farms, in schools and colleges, in homes, on streets and highways, in recreation, and in other public and private places;

    (2) to collect, correlate, publish, and disseminate educational and informative reports and all other data related to safety methods and procedures;

    (3) to arouse and maintain the interest of the people of the United States and its territories and possessions in safety and accident prevention, and to encourage the adoption and institution of safety methods by all individuals, corporations, and other organizations;

    (4) to organize, establish, and conduct programs, lectures, conferences, and other activities for the education of all individuals, corporations, and other organizations in safety methods and procedures;

    (5) to organize and aid in organizing local safety chapters throughout the United States and its territories and possessions, and to provide organizational guidance and materials to promote the national safety;

    (6) to cooperate with, enlist, and develop the cooperation of and among all individuals, corporations, and other organizations and agencies, public and private, engaged in, interested in, or in any manner connected with, any of these purposes; and

    (7) to do any lawful acts necessary, useful, suitable, desirable, and proper for the furtherance and accomplishment of any of these purposes.

([Pub. L. 105–225][/us/pl/105/225], Aug. 12, 1998, [112 Stat. 1415][/us/stat/112/1415].)

<table>

  <tr>

    <td colspan="3"> 

Historical and Revision Notes  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

Revised

Section  </td>

    <td> 

Source (U.S. Code)  </td>

    <td> 

Source (Statutes at Large)  </td>

  </tr>

  <tr>

    <td> 

152502  </td>

    <td> 

36:463.  </td>

    <td> 

Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 429, § 3, 67 Stat. 569.  </td>

  </tr>

</table>

    Before clause (1), the word “object” is omitted as included in “purposes”.

    In clause (2), the words “distribute” and “data” (the first time appearing) are omitted as unnecessary.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152501.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t36/stII/ptB/ch1525/m__us_usc_t36_s152503.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft36%2Fs152502)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/105/225]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F105%2F225
[/us/stat/112/1415]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F112%2F1415


