---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s17616

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch154/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s17615.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch154/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s17617.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17616)

## § 17616. ICAC grant program

    (a) __Establishment__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            The Attorney General is authorized to award grants to State and local ICAC task forces to assist in carrying out the duties and functions described under [section 17614 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s17614].

        (2) __Formula grants__ 

            (A) __Development of formula__ 

                At least 75 percent of the total funds appropriated to carry out this section shall be available to award or otherwise distribute grants pursuant to a funding formula established by the Attorney General in accordance with the requirements in subparagraph (B).

            (B) __Formula requirements__ 

            Any formula established by the Attorney General under subparagraph (A) shall—

                (i) ensure that each State or local ICAC task force shall, at a minimum, receive an amount equal to 0.5 percent of the funds available to award or otherwise distribute grants under subparagraph (A); and

                (ii)

                 take into consideration the following factors:

                    (I) The population of each State, as determined by the most recent decennial census performed by the Bureau of the Census.

                    (II) The number of investigative leads within the applicant’s jurisdiction generated by Operation Fairplay, the ICAC Data Network, the CyberTipline, and other sources.

                    (III) The number of criminal cases related to Internet crimes against children referred to a task force for Federal, State, or local prosecution.

                    (IV) The number of successful prosecutions of child exploitation cases by a task force.

                    (V) The amount of training, technical assistance, and public education or outreach by a task force related to the prevention, investigation, or prosecution of child exploitation offenses.

                    (VI) Such other criteria as the Attorney General determines demonstrate the level of need for additional resources by a task force.

        (3) __Distribution of remaining funds based on need__ 

            (A) __In general__ 

                Any funds remaining from the total funds appropriated to carry out this section after funds have been made available to award or otherwise distribute formula grants under paragraph (2)(A) shall be distributed to State and local ICAC task forces based upon need, as set forth by criteria established by the Attorney General. Such criteria shall include the factors under paragraph (2)(B)(ii).

            (B) __Matching requirement__ 

                A State or local ICAC task force shall contribute matching non-Federal funds in an amount equal to not less than 25 percent of the amount of funds received by the State or local ICAC task force under subparagraph (A). A State or local ICAC task force that is not able or willing to contribute matching funds in accordance with this subparagraph shall not be eligible for funds under subparagraph (A).

            (C) __Waiver__ 

                The Attorney General may waive, in whole or in part, the matching requirement under subparagraph (B) if the State or local ICAC task force demonstrates good cause or financial hardship.

    (b) __Application__ 

        (1) __In general__ 

            Each State or local ICAC task force seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Attorney General may reasonably require.

        (2) __Contents__ 

        Each application submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall—

            (A) describe the activities for which assistance under this section is sought; and

            (B) provide such additional assurances as the Attorney General determines to be essential to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.

    (c) __Allowable uses__ 

    Grants awarded under this section may be used to—

        (1) hire personnel, investigators, prosecutors, education specialists, and forensic specialists;

        (2) establish and support forensic laboratories utilized in Internet crimes against children investigations;

        (3) support investigations and prosecutions of Internet crimes against children;

        (4) conduct and assist with education programs to help children and parents protect themselves from Internet predators;

        (5) conduct and attend training sessions related to successful investigations and prosecutions of Internet crimes against children; and

        (6) fund any other activities directly related to preventing, investigating, or prosecuting Internet crimes against children.

    (d) __Reporting requirements__ 

        (1) __ICAC reports__ 

        To measure the results of the activities funded by grants under this section, and to assist the Attorney General in complying with the Government Performance and Results Act ([Public Law 103–62][/us/pl/103/62]; [107 Stat. 285][/us/stat/107/285]), each State or local ICAC task force receiving a grant under this section shall, on an annual basis, submit a report to the Attorney General that sets forth the following:

            (A) Staffing levels of the task force, including the number of investigators, prosecutors, education specialists, and forensic specialists dedicated to investigating and prosecuting Internet crimes against children.

            (B)

             Investigation and prosecution performance measures of the task force, including—

                (i) the number of investigations initiated related to Internet crimes against children;

                (ii) the number of arrests related to Internet crimes against children; and

                (iii)

                 the number of prosecutions for Internet crimes against children, including—

                    (I) whether the prosecution resulted in a conviction for such crime; and

                    (II) the sentence and the statutory maximum for such crime under State law.

            (C) The number of referrals made by the task force to the United States Attorneys office, including whether the referral was accepted by the United States Attorney.

            (D) Statistics that account for the disposition of investigations that do not result in arrests or prosecutions, such as referrals to other law enforcement.

            (E) The number of investigative technical assistance sessions that the task force provided to nonmember law enforcement agencies.

            (F) The number of computer forensic examinations that the task force completed.

            (G) The number of law enforcement agencies participating in Internet crimes against children program standards established by the task force.

        (2) __Report to Congress__ 

        Not later than 1 year after October 13, 2008, the Attorney General shall submit a report to Congress on—

            (A) the progress of the development of the ICAC Task Force Program established under [section 17612 of this title][/us/usc/t42/s17612]; and

            (B) the number of Federal and State investigations, prosecutions, and convictions in the prior 12-month period related to child exploitation.

([Pub. L. 110–401, title I][/us/pl/110/401/tI], § 106, Oct. 13, 2008, [122 Stat. 4238][/us/stat/122/4238].)

 __References in Text__ 

    The Government Performance and Results Act, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), probably means the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, [Pub. L. 103–62][/us/pl/103/62], Aug. 3, 1993, [107 Stat. 285][/us/stat/107/285], which enacted [section 306 of Title 5][/us/usc/t5/s306], Government Organization and Employees, sections 1115 to 1119, 9703, and 9704 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and sections 2801 to 2805 of Title 39, Postal Service, amended [section 1105 of Title 31][/us/usc/t31/s1105], and enacted provisions set out as notes under sections 1101 and 1115 of Title 31. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 1993 Amendment note set out under [section 1101 of Title 31][/us/usc/t31/s1101] and Tables.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch154/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s17615.md) | [Next](./../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch154/schI/m__us_usc_t42_s17617.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17616)

----------
----------

[/us/usc/t42/s17614]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17614
[/us/pl/103/62]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F103%2F62
[/us/stat/107/285]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F107%2F285
[/us/usc/t42/s17612]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17612
[/us/pl/110/401/tI]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F401%2FtI
[/us/stat/122/4238]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F122%2F4238
[/us/pl/103/62]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F103%2F62
[/us/stat/107/285]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F107%2F285
[/us/usc/t5/s306]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft5%2Fs306
[/us/usc/t31/s1105]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft31%2Fs1105
[/us/usc/t31/s1101]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft31%2Fs1101


