---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch339/s2182

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch339/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch339_s2181.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch339/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch339_s2183.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch339%2Fs2182)

##### § 2182. Extension of termination dates of mineral purchase programs

    In accordance with the declaration of policy set forth in section 2 of this Act \[section 2181 of this Appendix\], the termination dates of all purchase programs designed to stimulate the domestic production of tungsten, manganese, chromite, mica, asbestos, beryl, and columbium-tantalum-bearing ores and concentrates and established by regulations issued pursuant to the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended \[sections 2061 to 2170, 2171, and 2172 of this Appendix\], shall be extended an additional two years: Provided, That this section is not intended and shall not be construed to limit or restrict the regulatory agencies from extending the termination dates of these programs beyond the two-year extension periods provided by this section or from increasing the quantity of materials that may be delivered and accepted under these programs as permitted by existing statutory authority: Provided further, That the extended termination date provided by this section for the columbium-tantalum purchase program shall not apply to the purchase of columbium-tantalum-bearing ores and concentrates of foreign origin.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 339, § 3][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch339/s3], [67 Stat. 417][/us/stat/67/417].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch339/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch339_s2181.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch339/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch339_s2183.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch339%2Fs2182)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch339/s3]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch339%2Fs3
[/us/stat/67/417]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F417


