---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941u

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941t.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941v.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941u)

##### § 1941u. Congressional resolutions respecting facilities

    (a) __Resolutions as rules of Congress; changes__ 

    The provisions of this section are enacted by the Congress:

        (1) As an exercise of the rule-making power of the Senate and the house of Representatives, respectively, and as such they shall be considered as part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in such House in the case of resolutions (as defined in subsection (b)); and such rules shall supersede other rules only to the extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and

        (2) With full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change such rules (so far as relating to the procedure in such House) at any time, in the same manner and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of such House.

    (b) __Form of resolution__ 

        As used in this section, the term “resolution” means only a resolution of either of the two Houses of Congress, the matter after the resolving clause of which is as follows: (1) “That the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ does not favor sale of the facilities as recommended in the report of the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission.”, the blank therein being filled with the name of the resolving House; or (2) “That the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ does not favor the sale of the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ as recommended in the report of the Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission.”, the first blank therein being filled with the name of the resolving House and the other blank being filled with a description of the facility or facilities proposed to be sold.

    (c) __Reference to committee__ 

        A resolution with respect to a facility or facilities shall be referred to a committee (and all such resolutions shall be referred to the same committee) by the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as the case may be.

    (d) __Report by committee; motion to discharge__ 

        (1) If the committee to which has been referred a resolution with respect to a facility or facilities has not reported it before the expiration of ten calendar days after its introduction, it shall then (but not before) be in order to move either to discharge the committee from further consideration of such resolution, or to discharge the committee from further consideration of any other resolution with respect to such facility or facilities which has been referred to the committee.

        (2) Such motion may be made only by a person favoring the resolution, shall be highly privileged (except that it may not be made after the committee has reported a resolution with respect to the same facility or facilities), and debate thereon shall be limited to not to exceed one hour, to be equally divided between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. No amendment to such motion shall be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which such motion is agreed to or disagreed to.

        (3) If the motion to discharge is agreed to or disagreed to, such motion may not be renewed, nor may another motion to discharge the committee be made with respect to any other resolution with respect to the same facility or facilities.

    (e) __Motion to consider resolution; amendment__ 

        (1) Where the committee has reported, or has been discharged from further consideration of, a resolution with respect to a facility or facilities, it shall at any time thereafter be in order (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of such resolution. Such motion shall be highly privileged and shall not be debatable. No amendment to such motion shall be in order and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which such motion is agreed to or disagreed to.

        (2) Debate on the resolution shall be limited to not to exceed ten hours, which shall be equally divided between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. A motion further to limit debate shall not be debatable. No amendment to, or motion to recommit, the resolution shall be in order, and it shall not be in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the resolution is agreed to or disagreed to.

    (f) __Motions and appeals from decisions on rules to be decided without debate__ 

        (1) All motions to postpone, made with respect to the discharge from committee, or the consideration of, a resolution with respect to a facility or facilities, and all motions to proceed to the consideration of other business, shall be decided without debate.

        (2) All appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a resolution with respect to a facility or facilities, shall be decided without debate.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 23][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s23], [67 Stat. 415][/us/stat/67/415].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions, property, records, etc., of Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission transferred to Federal Facilities Corporation by Ex. Ord. No. 10678, Sept. 20, 1956, 21 F.R. 7199, set out under section 1941r of this Appendix.

    Federal Facilities Corporation dissolved and functions, property, records, etc., transferred to Administrator of General Services by [Pub. L. 87–190][/us/pl/87/190], Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 418][/us/stat/75/418], set out as a note under section 1938 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941t.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941v.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941u)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s23]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs23
[/us/stat/67/415]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F415
[/us/pl/87/190]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F190
[/us/stat/75/418]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F75%2F418


