---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941v

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941u.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941w.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941v)

##### § 1941v. Rejection of recommended sales contract; right to review of purchaser of other facilities; minimum annual production necessary to sustain disposal report

    Notwithstanding any provisions of this Act \[sections 1941 to 1941y of this Appendix\], in the event that the recommended sale of any facility is disapproved by either House of the Congress, any prospective purchaser of any other facility shall have a period of thirty days after the termination of the period for review by the Congress in which to reject the recommended sales contract with regard to the facility or facilities which he has agreed to purchase: Provided, That if as a result of the disapproval by either House of the Congress of the sale of any facility or facilities, or as a result of the rejection of one or more sales contracts by any prospective purchaser as provided in this section, the remaining facilities to be sold will in the aggregate not be capable of annually producing at least 500,000 long tons of general purpose synthetic rubber and at least 43,000 long tons of butyl rubber, then no facility shall be sold under this Act \[said sections\], and for the purposes of this Act \[said sections\] the report of the Commission shall be deemed to have been disapproved in its entirety.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 24][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s24], [67 Stat. 416][/us/stat/67/416].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions, property, records, etc., of Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission transferred to Federal Facilities Corporation by Ex. Ord. No. 10678, Sept. 20, 1956, 21 F.R. 7199, set out under section 1941r of this Appendix.

    Federal Facilities Corporation dissolved and functions, property, records, etc., transferred to Administrator of General Services by [Pub. L. 87–190][/us/pl/87/190], Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 418][/us/stat/75/418], set out as a note under section 1938 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941u.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941w.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941v)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s24]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs24
[/us/stat/67/416]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F416
[/us/pl/87/190]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F190
[/us/stat/75/418]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F75%2F418


