---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941i

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941h.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941j.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941i)

##### § 1941i. Exclusion from term “rubber-producing facilities”

    The term “rubber-producing facilities” as used in this Act \[sections 1941 to 1941y of this Appendix\] shall not include the Government-owned evaluation laboratory at Akron, Ohio.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 11][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s11], [67 Stat. 413][/us/stat/67/413].)

 __Disposal of Research Laboratories at Akron, Ohio__ 

[Act July 26, 1956, ch. 738][/us/act/1956-07-26/ch738], [70 Stat. 657][/us/stat/70/657], provided: 

> “That the Government laboratories at Akron, Ohio, now under control of the National Science Foundation are hereby transferred to the General Services Administration for disposal in accordance with the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 \[see chapters 1 to 11 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and Works, and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of Title 41, Public Contracts\], except that the Administrator of General Services shall first offer the laboratories for public sale before seeking to dispose of them by transfer or assignment to any Federal agency. The Administrator of General Services, before he offers the laboratories to the public for sale, shall ascertain what the value of the laboratories would be to Government agencies which would make substantial use thereof, and the Administrator shall not sell the laboratories to the public unless he finds, after consultation with the Director of the Budget Bureau, that such sale to the public would be in the best interests of the United States, taking into consideration among other relevant factors the value of the laboratories to any interested agency and the amounts offered by public bidders. The National Science Foundation is authorized to reimburse the General Services Administration in advance for expenses necessary for the protection and maintenance of the laboratories up to June 30, 1957.”

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941h.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941j.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941i)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s11]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs11
[/us/stat/67/413]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F413
[/us/act/1956-07-26/ch738]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1956-07-26%2Fch738
[/us/stat/70/657]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F70%2F657


