---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941s

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941r.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941t.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941s)

##### § 1941s. Definitions

    (a) The term “synthetic rubber” means any product of chemical synthesis similar in general properties and applications to natural rubber, and specifically capable of vulcanization, produced in the United States, not including reclaimed synthetic rubber.

    (b) The term “general-purpose synthetic rubber” means a synthetic rubber of the butadiene-styrene type generally suitable for use in the manufacture of transportation items such as tires or camelback, as well as any other type of synthetic rubber equally or better suited for use in the manufacture of transportation items such as tires or camelback as determined from time to time by the President.

    (c) The term “rubber-producing facilities” means facilities, in whole or in part, for the manufacture of synthetic rubber, and the component materials thereof, including, but not limited to, buildings and land in which or on which such facilities may be located and all machinery and utilities associated therewith.

    (d) The term “component materials” means the material, raw, semifinished, and finished, necessary for the manufacture of synthetic rubber.

    (e) The term “standby condition” means the condition in which rubber-producing facilities, in whole or in part, are placed if not sold or leased in accordance with this Act \[sections 1941 to 1941y of this Appendix\], but are maintained so as to be readily available for the production of synthetic rubber or component materials.

    (f) The term “person” means any individual, firm, copartnership, business trust, corporation, or any organized group of persons whether incorporated or not.

    (g) The term “operating agency” means the Department, agency, officer, Government corporation, or instrumentality of the United States designated from time to time by the President pursuant to section 7(a) of the Rubber Act of 1948, as amended \[section 1926(a) of this Appendix\].

    (h) The term “small business enterprise” means an enterprise independently owned and operated which is not dominant in its field of operation, due regard being given to the number of its employees and dollar volume of business.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 21][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s21], [67 Stat. 415][/us/stat/67/415].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941r.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941t.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941s)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s21]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs21
[/us/stat/67/415]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F415


