---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941n

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941m.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941o.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941n)

##### § 1941n. Basis for negotiating sale of a facility

    In arriving at its recommendations for the disposal of the facilities, the Commission shall use, as the basis for negotiating the sale of each facility the highest amount proposed to be paid for each facility, if, in the opinion of the Commission, the highest amount proposed to be paid was a bona fide proposal and was submitted by a person competent to operate a rubber-producing facility: Provided, That the words “competent to operate a rubber-producing facility” shall not be interpreted so as to require prior experience in the operation of a rubber-producing facility: Provided further, That in using such highest proposed amount as a basis for negotiations the Commission may negotiate with respect to any facility with any person who submitted a proposal on that or any similar facility and may recommend sale of any facility to any person who submitted a proposal on that or any similar facility at a price which is equal to, higher than, or lower than the highest amount proposed to be paid for each facility as the Commission determines will best effectuate the purposes of this Act \[sections 1941 to 1941y of this Appendix\].

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 16][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s16], [67 Stat. 413][/us/stat/67/413].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions, property, records, etc., of Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission transferred to Federal Facilities Corporation by Ex. Ord. No. 10678, Sept. 20, 1956, 21 F.R. 7199, set out under section 1941r of this Appendix.

    Federal Facilities Corporation dissolved and functions, property, records, etc., transferred to Administrator of General Services by [Pub. L. 87–190][/us/pl/87/190], Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 418][/us/stat/75/418], set out as a note under section 1938 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941m.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941o.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941n)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s16]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs16
[/us/stat/67/413]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F413
[/us/pl/87/190]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F190
[/us/stat/75/418]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F75%2F418


