---
---

# Appendix to 50 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s1941o

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941n.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941p.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941o)

##### § 1941o. Criteria for disposal recommendations

    The following criteria, together with such other criteria as the Commission deems necessary or desirable to best effectuate the purposes of this Act \[sections 1941 to 1941y of this Appendix\], shall be used by the Commission in arriving at its recommendations for disposal:

    (1) That the disposal program be designed best to afford small-business enterprises and users, other than the purchser  <sup>\[1\]</sup>  <sup><sup> 1 So in original. Probably should be “purchaser”. </sup></sup>  of a facility, the opportunity to obtain a fair share of the end products of the facilities sold and at fair prices;

    (2) That the prospective purchaser has the technical competence necessary to operate a rubber-producing facility, except that prior experience in operating a rubber-producing facility shall not be required as a basis for determining whether a prospective purchaser has the technical competence necessary to operate a rubber-producing facility;

    (3) That the recommended sales shall provide for the development within the United States of a free, competitive, synthetic rubber industry, and do not permit any person to possess unreasonable control over the manufacture of synthetic rubber or its component materials;

    (4) That the prospective purchaser is acting in good faith, and actually intends to operate the facility or facilities for the purpose of manufacturing synthetic rubber or its component materials;

    (5) That full fair value for the facility or facilities will be received by the Government, taking into consideration the policy set forth in section 2 of this Act \[section 1941 of this Appendix\];

    (6) That disposal of the facility or facilities to the purchasers is consistent with national security; and

    (7) That the facilities recommended for sale will in the aggregate be capable of annually producing not less than five hundred thousand long tons of general-purpose synthetic rubber, and not less than forty-three thousand long tons annually of butyl rubber.

([Aug. 7, 1953, ch. 338, § 17][/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s17], [67 Stat. 414][/us/stat/67/414].)

 __Transfer of Functions__ 

    Functions, property, records, etc., of Rubber Producing Facilities Disposal Commission transferred to Federal Facilities Corporation by Ex. Ord. No. 10678, Sept. 20, 1956, 21 F.R. 7199, set out under section 1941r of this Appendix.

    Federal Facilities Corporation dissolved and functions, property, records, etc., transferred to Administrator of General Services by [Pub. L. 87–190][/us/pl/87/190], Aug. 30, 1961, [75 Stat. 418][/us/stat/75/418], set out as a note under section 1938 of this Appendix.

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941n.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t50a/act/1953-08-07/ch338/m__us_usc_t50a_act_1953-08-07_ch338_s1941p.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft50a%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs1941o)

----------
----------

[/us/act/1953-08-07/ch338/s17]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fact%2F1953-08-07%2Fch338%2Fs17
[/us/stat/67/414]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F67%2F414
[/us/pl/87/190]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F87%2F190
[/us/stat/75/418]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F75%2F418


