---
---

# 42 U.S.C., USLM ref /us/usc/t42/s17173

* Portions Copyright © 2016 the authors of the https://github.com/publicdocs project.
  Use of this file is subject to the NOTICE at [https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE](https://github.com/publicdocs/uscode/blob/master/NOTICE)
* See the [Document Metadata](././../../../../../..//README.md) for more information.
  This file is generated from historical government data; content and/or formatting may be inaccurate and out-of-date and should not be used for official purposes.

----------
----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptA/m__us_usc_t42_s17172.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptA/m__us_usc_t42_s17174.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17173)

## § 17173. Daylighting systems and direct solar light pipe technology

    (a) __Establishment__ 

        The Secretary shall establish a program of research and development to provide assistance in the demonstration and commercial application of direct solar renewable energy sources to provide alternatives to traditional power generation for lighting and illumination, including light pipe technology, and to promote greater energy conservation and improved efficiency. All direct solar renewable energy devices supported under this program shall have the capability to provide measurable data on the amount of kilowatt-hours saved over the traditionally powered light sources they have replaced.

    (b) __Reporting__ 

        The Secretary shall transmit to Congress an annual report assessing the measurable data derived from each project in the direct solar renewable energy sources program and the energy savings resulting from its use.

    (c) __Definitions__ 

    For purposes of this section—

        (1) the term “direct solar renewable energy” means energy from a device that converts sunlight into useable light within a building, tunnel, or other enclosed structure, replacing artificial light generated by a light fixture and doing so without the conversion of the sunlight into another form of energy; and

        (2) the term “light pipe” means a device designed to transport visible solar radiation from its collection point to the interior of a building while excluding interior heat gain in the nonheating season.

    (d) __Authorization of appropriations__ 

        There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section $3,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2008 through 2012.

([Pub. L. 110–140, title VI][/us/pl/110/140/tVI], § 605, Dec. 19, 2007, [121 Stat. 1676][/us/stat/121/1676].)

----------

[Previous](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptA/m__us_usc_t42_s17172.md) | [Next](./../../../../../..//us/usc/t42/ch152/schV/ptA/m__us_usc_t42_s17174.md) | [Root of Title](./../../../../../../) | [Other Versions of this Document](https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fusc%2Ft42%2Fs17173)

----------
----------

[/us/pl/110/140/tVI]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fpl%2F110%2F140%2FtVI
[/us/stat/121/1676]: https://publicdocs.github.io/go/links?ns=uslm&ref=%2Fus%2Fstat%2F121%2F1676


